# Windows Memory Threat Alert

## Description

This alert is generated when a Memory Threat alert occurs.


## Overview

<table>
<tr>
<td><strong>OS</strong></td>
<td>Windows</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Data Stream</strong></td>
<td>logs-endpoint.alerts-*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>KQL Query</strong></td>
<td><code>event.dataset : "endpoint.alerts" and event.module : "endpoint" and host.os.type : "windows" and event.code : "memory_signature"</code></td>
</tr>
</table>

## Fields

#### `@timestamp`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Date/time when the event originated.  This is the date/time extracted from the event, typically representing when the event was generated by the source.  If the event source has no original timestamp, this value is typically populated by the first time the event was received by the pipeline.  Required field for all events.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>2016-05-23T08:05:34.853Z</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `Endpoint.policy.applied.artifacts.global.channel`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The channel of the windows artifact.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `Endpoint.policy.applied.artifacts.global.identifiers.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>the name of global artifact applied.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `Endpoint.policy.applied.artifacts.global.identifiers.sha256`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>the sha256 of global artifacts applied.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `Endpoint.policy.applied.artifacts.global.snapshot`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>the snapshot date of applied global artifacts or 'latest'</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `Endpoint.policy.applied.artifacts.global.update_age`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>number of days since global artifacts were made up-to-date</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `Endpoint.policy.applied.artifacts.global.version`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>the version of global artifacts applied.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `Endpoint.policy.applied.artifacts.user.identifiers.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>the name of user artifact applied.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `Endpoint.policy.applied.artifacts.user.identifiers.sha256`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>the sha256 of user artifacts applied.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `Endpoint.policy.applied.artifacts.user.version`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>the version of user artifacts applied.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `Endpoint.policy.applied.endpoint_policy_version`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>the version of this applied policy</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `Endpoint.policy.applied.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>the id of the applied policy</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `Endpoint.policy.applied.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>the name of this applied policy</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `Endpoint.policy.applied.version`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>the version of this applied policy</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `agent.build.original`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Extended build information for the agent.  This field is intended to contain any build information that a data source may provide, no specific formatting is required.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>metricbeat version 7.6.0 (amd64), libbeat 7.6.0 [6a23e8f8f30f5001ba344e4e54d8d9cb82cb107c built 2020-02-05 23:10:10 +0000 UTC]</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `agent.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier of this agent (if one exists).  Example: For Beats this would be beat.id.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>8a4f500d</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `agent.type`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Type of the agent.  The agent type always stays the same and should be given by the agent used. In case of Filebeat the agent would always be Filebeat also if two Filebeat instances are run on the same machine.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>filebeat</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `agent.version`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Version of the agent.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>6.0.0-rc2</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `data_stream.dataset`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Data stream dataset name.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>nginx.access</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `data_stream.namespace`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Data stream namespace.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>production</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `data_stream.type`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Data stream type.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>logs</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `ecs.version`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>ECS version this event conforms to. `ecs.version` is a required field and must exist in all events.  When querying across multiple indices -- which may conform to slightly different ECS versions -- this field lets integrations adjust to the schema version of the events.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>1.0.0</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `elastic.agent.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier of this elastic agent (if one exists).</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>c2a9093e-e289-4c0a-aa44-8c32a414fa7a</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `event.category`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>This is one of four ECS Categorization Fields, and indicates the second level in the ECS category hierarchy.  `event.category` represents the "big buckets" of ECS categories. For example, filtering on `event.category:process` yields all events relating to process activity. This field is closely related to `event.type`, which is used as a subcategory.  This field is an array. This will allow proper categorization of some events that fall in multiple categories.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>authentication</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `event.code`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Identification code for this event, if one exists.  Some event sources use event codes to identify messages unambiguously, regardless of message language or wording adjustments over time. An example of this is the Windows Event ID.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4648</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `event.created`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>`event.created` contains the date/time when the event was first read by an agent, or by your pipeline.  This field is distinct from `@timestamp` in that `@timestamp` typically contain the time extracted from the original event.  In most situations, these two timestamps will be slightly different. The difference can be used to calculate the delay between your source generating an event, and the time when your agent first processed it. This can be used to monitor your agent's or pipeline's ability to keep up with your event source.  In case the two timestamps are identical, `@timestamp` should be used.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>2016-05-23T08:05:34.857Z</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `event.dataset`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Name of the dataset.  If an event source publishes more than one type of log or events (e.g. access log, error log), the dataset is used to specify which one the event comes from.  It's recommended but not required to start the dataset name with the module name, followed by a dot, then the dataset name.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>apache.access</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `event.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique ID to describe the event.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>8a4f500d</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `event.kind`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>This is one of four ECS Categorization Fields, and indicates the highest level in the ECS category hierarchy.  `event.kind` gives high-level information about what type of information the event contains, without being specific to the contents of the event. For example, values of this field distinguish alert events from metric events.  The value of this field can be used to inform how these kinds of events should be handled. They may warrant different retention, different access control, it may also help understand whether the data is coming in at a regular interval or not.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>alert</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `event.module`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Name of the module this data is coming from.  If your monitoring agent supports the concept of modules or plugins to process events of a given source (e.g. Apache logs), `event.module` should contain the name of this module.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>apache</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `event.outcome`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>This is one of four ECS Categorization Fields, and indicates the lowest level in the ECS category hierarchy.  `event.outcome` simply denotes whether the event represents a success or a failure from the perspective of the entity that produced the event.  Note that when a single transaction is described in multiple events, each event may populate different values of `event.outcome`, according to their perspective.  Also note that in the case of a compound event (a single event that contains multiple logical events), this field should be populated with the value that best captures the overall success or failure from the perspective of the event producer.  Further note that not all events will have an associated outcome. For example, this field is generally not populated for metric events, events with `event.type:info`, or any events for which an outcome does not make logical sense.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>success</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `event.risk_score`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Risk score or priority of the event (e.g. security solutions). Use your system's original value here.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `event.sequence`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Sequence number of the event.  The sequence number is a value published by some event sources, to make the exact ordering of events unambiguous, regardless of the timestamp precision.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `event.severity`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The numeric severity of the event according to your event source.  What the different severity values mean can be different between sources and use cases. It's up to the implementer to make sure severities are consistent across events from the same source.  The Syslog severity belongs in `log.syslog.severity.code`. `event.severity` is meant to represent the severity according to the event source (e.g. firewall, IDS). If the event source does not publish its own severity, you may optionally copy the `log.syslog.severity.code` to `event.severity`.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>7</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `event.type`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>This is one of four ECS Categorization Fields, and indicates the third level in the ECS category hierarchy.  `event.type` represents a categorization "sub-bucket" that, when used along with the `event.category` field values, enables filtering events down to a level appropriate for single visualization.  This field is an array. This will allow proper categorization of some events that fall in multiple event types.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `host.architecture`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Operating system architecture.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>x86_64</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `host.hostname`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Hostname of the host.  It normally contains what the `hostname` command returns on the host machine.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `host.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique host id.  As hostname is not always unique, use values that are meaningful in your environment.  Example: The current usage of `beat.name`.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `host.ip`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Host ip addresses.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `host.mac`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Host MAC addresses.  The notation format from RFC 7042 is suggested: Each octet (that is, 8-bit byte) is represented by two [uppercase] hexadecimal digits giving the value of the octet as an unsigned integer. Successive octets are separated by a hyphen.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>["00-00-5E-00-53-23", "00-00-5E-00-53-24"]</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `host.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Name of the host.  It can contain what hostname returns on Unix systems, the fully qualified domain name (FQDN), or a name specified by the user. The recommended value is the lowercase FQDN of the host.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `host.os.Ext.variant`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>A string value or phrase that further aid to classify or qualify the operating system (OS).  For example the distribution for a Linux OS will be entered in this field.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>Ubuntu</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `host.os.family`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>OS family (such as redhat, debian, freebsd, windows).</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>debian</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `host.os.full`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Operating system name, including the version or code name.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>Mac OS Mojave</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `host.os.kernel`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Operating system kernel version as a raw string.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4.4.0-112-generic</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `host.os.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Operating system name, without the version.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>Mac OS X</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `host.os.platform`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Operating system platform (such centos, ubuntu, windows).</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>darwin</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `host.os.type`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Use the `os.type` field to categorize the operating system into one of the broad commercial families.  If the OS you're dealing with is not listed as an expected value, the field should not be populated. Please let us know by opening an issue with ECS, to propose its addition.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>macos</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `host.os.version`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Operating system version as a raw string.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>10.14.1</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `message`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>For log events the message field contains the log message, optimized for viewing in a log viewer.  For structured logs without an original message field, other fields can be concatenated to form a human-readable summary of the event.  If multiple messages exist, they can be combined into one message.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>Hello World</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.ancestry`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>An array of entity_ids indicating the ancestors for this event</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.architecture`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Process architecture.  It can differ from host architecture.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>x86_64</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.code_signature.exists`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Boolean to capture if a signature is present.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>true</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.code_signature.status`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Additional information about the certificate status.  This is useful for logging cryptographic errors with the certificate validity or trust status. Leave unpopulated if the validity or trust of the certificate was unchecked.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>ERROR_UNTRUSTED_ROOT</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.code_signature.subject_name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Subject name of the code signer</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>Microsoft Corporation</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.code_signature.trusted`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Stores the trust status of the certificate chain.  Validating the trust of the certificate chain may be complicated, and this field should only be populated by tools that actively check the status.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>true</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.memory_region.allocation_base`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Base address of the memory allocation containing the memory region.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>2431737462784</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.memory_region.allocation_protection`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Original memory protection requested when the memory was allocated. Example values include "RWX" and "R-X".</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>RWX</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.memory_region.allocation_size`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Original memory size requested when the memory was allocated.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4096</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.memory_region.allocation_type`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The memory allocation type. Example values include "IMAGE", "MAPPED", and "PRIVATE".</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>PRIVATE</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.memory_region.bytes_address`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The address where bytes_compressed begins.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>2431737462784</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.memory_region.bytes_allocation_offset`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Offset of bytes_address the memory allocation. Equal to bytes_address - allocation_base.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>0</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.memory_region.bytes_compressed`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Up to 4MB of raw data from the memory allocation. This is compressed with zlib.To reduce data volume, this is de-duplicated on the endpoint, and may be missing from many alerts if the same data would be sent multiple times.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>eJzzSM3JyVcIzy/KSVEEABxJBD4=</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.memory_region.bytes_compressed_present`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Whether bytes_compressed is present in this event.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>0</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.memory_region.malware_signature.all_names`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>A sequence of signature names matched.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>Windows.EICAR.Not-a-virus</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.memory_region.malware_signature.identifier`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>malware signature identifier</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.memory_region.malware_signature.primary.matches`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The first matching details.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.memory_region.malware_signature.primary.signature.hash.sha256`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>sha256 hash of file matching signature.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.memory_region.malware_signature.primary.signature.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The id of the first yara rule matched.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.memory_region.malware_signature.primary.signature.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The name of the first yara rule matched.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.memory_region.malware_signature.version`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>malware signature version</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.memory_region.region_base`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Base address of the memory region.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>2431737462784</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.memory_region.region_protection`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Memory protection of the memory region. Example values include "RWX" and "R-X".</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>RWX</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.memory_region.region_size`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Size of the memory region.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4096</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.memory_region.region_start_bytes`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>First 64 bytes at the region base address.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4d5a90000300000004000000ffff0000b80000000000000040000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.memory_region.region_state`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>State of the memory region. Example values include "RESERVE", "COMMIT", and "FREE".</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>COMMIT</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.protection`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Indicates the protection level of this process.  Uses the same syntax as Process Explorer. Examples include PsProtectedSignerWinTcb, PsProtectedSignerWinTcb-Light, and PsProtectedSignerWindows-Light.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.token.domain`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Domain of token user.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.token.elevation`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Whether the token is elevated or not</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.token.elevation_type`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>What level of elevation the token has</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>one of "default", "full", "limited"</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.token.integrity_level_name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Human readable integrity level.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>one of "system", "high", "medium", "low", "untrusted"</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.token.sid`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Token user's Security Identifier (SID).</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.token.user`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Username of token owner.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.user`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>User associated with the running process.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.args`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Array of process arguments, starting with the absolute path to the executable.  May be filtered to protect sensitive information.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>["/usr/bin/ssh", "-l", "user", "10.0.0.16"]</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.args_count`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Length of the process.args array.  This field can be useful for querying or performing bucket analysis on how many arguments were provided to start a process. More arguments may be an indication of suspicious activity.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.code_signature.exists`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Boolean to capture if a signature is present.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>true</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.code_signature.status`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Additional information about the certificate status.  This is useful for logging cryptographic errors with the certificate validity or trust status. Leave unpopulated if the validity or trust of the certificate was unchecked.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>ERROR_UNTRUSTED_ROOT</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.code_signature.subject_name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Subject name of the code signer</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>Microsoft Corporation</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.code_signature.trusted`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Stores the trust status of the certificate chain.  Validating the trust of the certificate chain may be complicated, and this field should only be populated by tools that actively check the status.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>true</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.command_line`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Full command line that started the process, including the absolute path to the executable, and all arguments.  Some arguments may be filtered to protect sensitive information.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>/usr/bin/ssh -l user 10.0.0.16</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.entity_id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier for the process.  The implementation of this is specified by the data source, but some examples of what could be used here are a process-generated UUID, Sysmon Process GUIDs, or a hash of some uniquely identifying components of a process.  Constructing a globally unique identifier is a common practice to mitigate PID reuse as well as to identify a specific process over time, across multiple monitored hosts.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>c2c455d9f99375d</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.executable`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Absolute path to the process executable.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>/usr/bin/ssh</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.hash.md5`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>MD5 hash.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.hash.sha1`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>SHA1 hash.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.hash.sha256`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>SHA256 hash.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Process name.  Sometimes called program name or similar.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>ssh</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.Ext.architecture`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Process architecture.  It can differ from host architecture.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>x86_64</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.Ext.code_signature.exists`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Boolean to capture if a signature is present.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>true</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.Ext.code_signature.status`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Additional information about the certificate status.  This is useful for logging cryptographic errors with the certificate validity or trust status. Leave unpopulated if the validity or trust of the certificate was unchecked.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>ERROR_UNTRUSTED_ROOT</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.Ext.code_signature.subject_name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Subject name of the code signer</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>Microsoft Corporation</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.Ext.code_signature.trusted`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Stores the trust status of the certificate chain.  Validating the trust of the certificate chain may be complicated, and this field should only be populated by tools that actively check the status.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>true</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.Ext.protection`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Indicates the protection level of this process.  Uses the same syntax as Process Explorer. Examples include PsProtectedSignerWinTcb, PsProtectedSignerWinTcb-Light, and PsProtectedSignerWindows-Light.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.Ext.user`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>User associated with the running process.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.args`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Array of process arguments, starting with the absolute path to the executable.  May be filtered to protect sensitive information.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>["/usr/bin/ssh", "-l", "user", "10.0.0.16"]</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.args_count`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Length of the process.args array.  This field can be useful for querying or performing bucket analysis on how many arguments were provided to start a process. More arguments may be an indication of suspicious activity.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.code_signature.exists`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Boolean to capture if a signature is present.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>true</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.code_signature.status`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Additional information about the certificate status.  This is useful for logging cryptographic errors with the certificate validity or trust status. Leave unpopulated if the validity or trust of the certificate was unchecked.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>ERROR_UNTRUSTED_ROOT</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.code_signature.subject_name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Subject name of the code signer</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>Microsoft Corporation</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.code_signature.trusted`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Stores the trust status of the certificate chain.  Validating the trust of the certificate chain may be complicated, and this field should only be populated by tools that actively check the status.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>true</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.command_line`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Full command line that started the process, including the absolute path to the executable, and all arguments.  Some arguments may be filtered to protect sensitive information.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>/usr/bin/ssh -l user 10.0.0.16</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.entity_id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier for the process.  The implementation of this is specified by the data source, but some examples of what could be used here are a process-generated UUID, Sysmon Process GUIDs, or a hash of some uniquely identifying components of a process.  Constructing a globally unique identifier is a common practice to mitigate PID reuse as well as to identify a specific process over time, across multiple monitored hosts.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>c2c455d9f99375d</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.executable`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Absolute path to the process executable.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>/usr/bin/ssh</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.hash.md5`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>MD5 hash.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.hash.sha1`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>SHA1 hash.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.hash.sha256`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>SHA256 hash.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Process name.  Sometimes called program name or similar.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>ssh</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.pid`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Process id.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4242</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.ppid`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Parent process' pid.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4241</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.start`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The time the process started.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>2016-05-23T08:05:34.853Z</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.uptime`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Seconds the process has been up.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>1325</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.pid`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Process id.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4242</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.ppid`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Parent process' pid.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4241</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.start`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The time the process started.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>2016-05-23T08:05:34.853Z</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.uptime`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Seconds the process has been up.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>1325</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `rule.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>A rule ID that is unique within the scope of an agent, observer, or other entity using the rule for detection of this event.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>101</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `rule.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The name of the rule or signature generating the event.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>BLOCK_DNS_over_TLS</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `rule.ruleset`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Name of the ruleset, policy, group, or parent category in which the rule used to generate this event is a member.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>Standard_Protocol_Filters</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `user.domain`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Name of the directory the user is a member of.  For example, an LDAP or Active Directory domain name.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `user.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Short name or login of the user.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>a.einstein</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

