# Windows Win32k API

## Description

This event is generated when keylogging-related Win32k APIs are called.

## Overview

<table>
<tr>
<td><strong>OS</strong></td>
<td>Windows</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Data Stream</strong></td>
<td>logs-endpoint.events.api-*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>KQL Query</strong></td>
<td><code>event.dataset : "endpoint.events.api" and event.module : "endpoint" and event.provider : "Microsoft-Windows-Win32k" and host.os.type : "windows"</code></td>
</tr>
</table>

## Fields

<details>
<summary><strong><code>@timestamp</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Date/time when the event originated.  This is the date/time extracted from the event, typically representing when the event was generated by the source.  If the event source has no original timestamp, this value is typically populated by the first time the event was received by the pipeline.  Required field for all events.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>2016-05-23T08:05:34.853Z</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>Target.process.Ext.protection</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Indicates the protection level of this process.  Uses the same syntax as Process Explorer. Examples include PsProtectedSignerWinTcb, PsProtectedSignerWinTcb-Light, and PsProtectedSignerWindows-Light.</td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>Target.process.name</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Process name.  Sometimes called program name or similar.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>ssh</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>Target.process.pid</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Process id.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4242</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>agent.id</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Unique identifier of this agent (if one exists).  Example: For Beats this would be beat.id.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>8a4f500d</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>agent.type</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Type of the agent.  The agent type always stays the same and should be given by the agent used. In case of Filebeat the agent would always be Filebeat also if two Filebeat instances are run on the same machine.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>endpoint</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>agent.version</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Version of the agent.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>6.0.0-rc2</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>data_stream.dataset</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Data stream dataset name.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>nginx.access</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>data_stream.namespace</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Data stream namespace.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>production</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>data_stream.type</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Data stream type.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>logs</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>ecs.version</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>ECS version this event conforms to. `ecs.version` is a required field and must exist in all events.  When querying across multiple indices -- which may conform to slightly different ECS versions -- this field lets integrations adjust to the schema version of the events.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>1.0.0</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>elastic.agent.id</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Unique identifier of this elastic agent (if one exists).</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>c2a9093e-e289-4c0a-aa44-8c32a414fa7a</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>event.category</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>This is one of four ECS Categorization Fields, and indicates the second level in the ECS category hierarchy.  `event.category` represents the "big buckets" of ECS categories. For example, filtering on `event.category:process` yields all events relating to process activity. This field is closely related to `event.type`, which is used as a subcategory.  This field is an array. This will allow proper categorization of some events that fall in multiple categories.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>authentication</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>event.created</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>`event.created` contains the date/time when the event was first read by an agent, or by your pipeline.  This field is distinct from `@timestamp` in that `@timestamp` typically contain the time extracted from the original event.  In most situations, these two timestamps will be slightly different. The difference can be used to calculate the delay between your source generating an event, and the time when your agent first processed it. This can be used to monitor your agent's or pipeline's ability to keep up with your event source.  In case the two timestamps are identical, `@timestamp` should be used.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>2016-05-23T08:05:34.857Z</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>event.dataset</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Name of the dataset.  If an event source publishes more than one type of log or events (e.g. access log, error log), the dataset is used to specify which one the event comes from.  It's recommended but not required to start the dataset name with the module name, followed by a dot, then the dataset name.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>apache.access</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>event.id</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Unique ID to describe the event.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>8a4f500d</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>event.kind</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>This is one of four ECS Categorization Fields, and indicates the highest level in the ECS category hierarchy.  `event.kind` gives high-level information about what type of information the event contains, without being specific to the contents of the event. For example, values of this field distinguish alert events from metric events.  The value of this field can be used to inform how these kinds of events should be handled. They may warrant different retention, different access control, it may also help understand whether the data is coming in at a regular interval or not.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>alert</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>event.module</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Name of the module this data is coming from.  If your monitoring agent supports the concept of modules or plugins to process events of a given source (e.g. Apache logs), `event.module` should contain the name of this module.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>apache</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>event.outcome</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>This is one of four ECS Categorization Fields, and indicates the lowest level in the ECS category hierarchy.  `event.outcome` simply denotes whether the event represents a success or a failure from the perspective of the entity that produced the event.  Note that when a single transaction is described in multiple events, each event may populate different values of `event.outcome`, according to their perspective.  Also note that in the case of a compound event (a single event that contains multiple logical events), this field should be populated with the value that best captures the overall success or failure from the perspective of the event producer.  Further note that not all events will have an associated outcome. For example, this field is generally not populated for metric events, events with `event.type:info`, or any events for which an outcome does not make logical sense.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>success</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>event.provider</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Source of the event.  Event transports such as Syslog or the Windows Event Log typically mention the source of an event. It can be the name of the software that generated the event (e.g. Sysmon, httpd), or of a subsystem of the operating system (kernel, Microsoft-Windows-Security-Auditing).</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>kernel</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>event.sequence</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Sequence number of the event.  The sequence number is a value published by some event sources, to make the exact ordering of events unambiguous, regardless of the timestamp precision.</td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>event.type</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>This is one of four ECS Categorization Fields, and indicates the third level in the ECS category hierarchy.  `event.type` represents a categorization "sub-bucket" that, when used along with the `event.category` field values, enables filtering events down to a level appropriate for single visualization.  This field is an array. This will allow proper categorization of some events that fall in multiple event types.</td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>host.architecture</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Operating system architecture.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>x86_64</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>host.hostname</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Hostname of the host.  It normally contains what the `hostname` command returns on the host machine.</td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>host.id</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Unique host id.  As hostname is not always unique, use values that are meaningful in your environment.  Example: The current usage of `beat.name`.</td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>host.ip</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Host ip addresses.</td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>host.mac</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Host MAC addresses.  The notation format from RFC 7042 is suggested: Each octet (that is, 8-bit byte) is represented by two [uppercase] hexadecimal digits giving the value of the octet as an unsigned integer. Successive octets are separated by a hyphen.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>["00-00-5E-00-53-23", "00-00-5E-00-53-24"]</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>host.name</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Name of the host.  It can contain what hostname returns on Unix systems, the fully qualified domain name (FQDN), or a name specified by the user. The recommended value is the lowercase FQDN of the host.</td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>host.os.Ext.variant</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>A string value or phrase that further aid to classify or qualify the operating system (OS).  For example the distribution for a Linux OS will be entered in this field.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>Ubuntu</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>host.os.family</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>OS family (such as redhat, debian, freebsd, windows).</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>debian</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>host.os.full</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Operating system name, including the version or code name.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>Mac OS Mojave</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>host.os.kernel</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Operating system kernel version as a raw string.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4.4.0-112-generic</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>host.os.name</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Operating system name, without the version.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>Mac OS X</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>host.os.platform</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Operating system platform (such centos, ubuntu, windows).</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>darwin</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>host.os.type</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Use the `os.type` field to categorize the operating system into one of the broad commercial families.  If the OS you're dealing with is not listed as an expected value, the field should not be populated. Please let us know by opening an issue with ECS, to propose its addition.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>macos</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>host.os.version</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Operating system version as a raw string.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>10.14.1</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>message</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>For log events the message field contains the log message, optimized for viewing in a log viewer.  For structured logs without an original message field, other fields can be concatenated to form a human-readable summary of the event.  If multiple messages exist, they can be combined into one message.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>Hello World</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.ancestry</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>An array of entity_ids indicating the ancestors for this event</td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.api.behaviors</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>A list of observed behaviors.    "cross-process" - the observed activity was between two processes    "parent-child" - the observed activity was between a parent process and its child    "native_api" - a call was made directly to the Native API rather than the Win32 API    "direct_syscall" - a syscall instruction originated outside of the Native API layer    "proxy_call" - the call stack may indicate of a proxied API call to mask the true source    "sensitive_api" - executable non-image memory is unexpectedly calling a sensitive API    "shellcode" - suspicious executable non-image memory is calling a sensitive API    "image_hooked" - an entry in the callstack appears to have been hooked    "image_indirect_call" - an entry in the callstack was preceded by a call to a dynamically resolved function    "image_rop" - no call instruction preceded an entry in the call stack    "image_rwx" - an entry in the callstack is writable    "unbacked_rwx" - an entry in the callstack is non-image and writable    "truncated_stack" - call stack is unexpected truncated due to malicious tampering or system load    "allocate_shellcode" - a region of non-image executable memory allocated more executable memory    "execute_fluctuation" - the PAGE_EXECUTE protection is unexpectedly fluctuating    "write_fluctuation" - the PAGE_WRITE protection of executable memory is unexpectedly fluctuating    "hook_api" - a change to the memory protection of a small executable image memory region was made    "hollow_image" - a change to the memory protection of a large executable image memory region was made    "hook_unbacked" - a change to the memory protection of a small executable non-image memory was made    "hollow_unbacked" - a change to the memory protection of a large executable non-image memory was made    "guarded_code" - executable memory was unexpectedly marked as PAGE_GUARD    "hidden_code" - executable memory was unexpectedly marked as PAGE_NOACCESS    "execute_shellcode" - a region of non-image executable memory was unexpectedly transferred control    "hardware_breakpoint_set" - a hardware breakpoint was set    "rapid_background_polling" - a suspicious process which does rapid input polling via GetAsyncKeyState API was observed    "multiple_polling_processes" - multiple suspicious processes which do rapid input polling via the GetAsyncKeyState API were observed    "pid_spoofing" - The acting process details may have been spoofed to hide the true origin    "legacy_api" - a deprecated or superseded API was called</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>[ "cross-process", "rapid_background_polling", "multiple_polling_processes", "native_api", "shellcode" ]</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.api.metadata.background_callcount</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>This field indicates a number of all GetAsyncKeyState api calls, including unsuccessful calls, between the last successful GetAsyncKeyState call.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>6021</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.api.metadata.ms_since_last_keyevent</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>This field indicates the elapsed time in milliseconds since the last GetAsyncKeyState event.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>94</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.api.metadata.procedure_symbol</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Summary of the hook procedure.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>taskbar.dll</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.api.metadata.return_value</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Return value of RegisterRawInputDevices API call.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>1</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.api.metadata.start_address_allocation_protection</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Memory protection attributes associated with the starting address of a thread.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>RCX</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.api.metadata.start_address_module</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Name of the module associated with the starting address of a thread.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>C:\Windows\System32\DellTPad\ApMsgFwd.exe</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.api.metadata.target_address_name</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>The name of the memory region targeted by the API call.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>Unbacked</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.api.metadata.target_address_path</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>The path of the memory region targeted by the API call.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>C:\programdata\example.dll</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.api.metadata.thread_info_flags</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Thread info flags.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>16</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.api.metadata.visible_windows_count</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Number of visible windows owned by the caller thread.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>0</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.api.metadata.windows_count</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Number of windows owned by the caller thread.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>2</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.api.name</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>The name of the API, usually the name of the function or system call.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>VirtualAlloc</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.api.parameters.address</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>The target memory address.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>2431737462784</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.api.parameters.allocation_type</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>The type of memory allocation. Corresponds to `MEMORY_BASIC_INFORMATION.State`</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>COMMIT|RESERVE</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.api.parameters.flags</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Mode flag that specifies how to interpret the information provided by UsagePage and Usage. Third member RAWINPUTDEVICE structure.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>INPUTSINK</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.api.parameters.hook_module</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>DLL containing the hook procedure.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>c:\windows\system32\taskbar.dll</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.api.parameters.hook_type</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Type of hook procedure to be installed.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>WH_KEYBOARD_LL</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.api.parameters.procedure</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>The memory address of the procedure or function.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>2431737462784</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.api.parameters.protection</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>The memory protection for the region of pages. Corresponds to `MEMORY_BASIC_INFORMATION.Protect`</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>RWX|GUARD</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.api.parameters.protection_old</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>The previous memory protection returned by the API call. Corresponds to `MEMORY_BASIC_INFORMATION.Protect`</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>RCX</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.api.parameters.size</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>The size.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4096</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.api.parameters.usage</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>This parameter indicates the specific device (Usage) within the Usage Page. Second member RAWINPUTDEVICE structure.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>KEYBOARD</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.api.parameters.usage_page</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>This parameter indicates the top-level collection (Usage Page) of the device. First member RAWINPUTDEVICE structure.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>GENERIC</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.api.summary</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>The summary of the API call and its parameters.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>VirtualAllocEx( file.exe, NULL, 0x42000, COMMIT|RESERVE, RWX )</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.code_signature.exists</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Boolean to capture if a signature is present.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>true</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.code_signature.status</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Additional information about the certificate status.  This is useful for logging cryptographic errors with the certificate validity or trust status. Leave unpopulated if the validity or trust of the certificate was unchecked.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>ERROR_UNTRUSTED_ROOT</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.code_signature.subject_name</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Subject name of the code signer</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>Microsoft Corporation</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.code_signature.trusted</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Stores the trust status of the certificate chain.  Validating the trust of the certificate chain may be complicated, and this field should only be populated by tools that actively check the status.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>true</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.protection</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Indicates the protection level of this process.  Uses the same syntax as Process Explorer. Examples include PsProtectedSignerWinTcb, PsProtectedSignerWinTcb-Light, and PsProtectedSignerWindows-Light.</td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.Ext.token.integrity_level_name</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Human readable integrity level.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>one of "system", "high", "medium", "low", "untrusted"</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.code_signature.exists</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Boolean to capture if a signature is present.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>true</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.code_signature.status</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Additional information about the certificate status.  This is useful for logging cryptographic errors with the certificate validity or trust status. Leave unpopulated if the validity or trust of the certificate was unchecked.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>ERROR_UNTRUSTED_ROOT</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.code_signature.subject_name</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Subject name of the code signer</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>Microsoft Corporation</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.code_signature.trusted</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Stores the trust status of the certificate chain.  Validating the trust of the certificate chain may be complicated, and this field should only be populated by tools that actively check the status.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>true</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.command_line</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Full command line that started the process, including the absolute path to the executable, and all arguments.  Some arguments may be filtered to protect sensitive information.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>/usr/bin/ssh -l user 10.0.0.16</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.entity_id</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Unique identifier for the process.  The implementation of this is specified by the data source, but some examples of what could be used here are a process-generated UUID, Sysmon Process GUIDs, or a hash of some uniquely identifying components of a process.  Constructing a globally unique identifier is a common practice to mitigate PID reuse as well as to identify a specific process over time, across multiple monitored hosts.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>c2c455d9f99375d</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.executable</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Absolute path to the process executable.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>/usr/bin/ssh</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.name</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Process name.  Sometimes called program name or similar.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>ssh</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.parent.executable</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Absolute path to the process executable.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>/usr/bin/ssh</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.pid</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Process id.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4242</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>process.thread.id</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Thread ID.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4242</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>user.domain</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Name of the directory the user is a member of.  For example, an LDAP or Active Directory domain name.</td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>user.id</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Unique identifier of the user.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>S-1-5-21-202424912787-2692429404-2351956786-1000</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong><code>user.name</code></strong></summary>

<p>
<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Short name or login of the user.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>a.einstein</code></td></tr>
</table>

</p>
</details>

