# Linux ptrace_attach Creation Events

## Description

This event is generated when when a process calls ptrace_attach on another process.

## Overview

<table>
<tr>
<td><strong>OS</strong></td>
<td>Linux</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Data Stream</strong></td>
<td>logs-endpoint.events.process-*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>KQL Query</strong></td>
<td><code>event.dataset : "endpoint.events.process" and event.module : "endpoint" and host.os.type : "linux" and event.action : "ptrace"</code></td>
</tr>
</table>

## Fields

#### `@timestamp`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Date/time when the event originated.  This is the date/time extracted from the event, typically representing when the event was generated by the source.  If the event source has no original timestamp, this value is typically populated by the first time the event was received by the pipeline.  Required field for all events.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>2016-05-23T08:05:34.853Z</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `agent.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier of this agent (if one exists).  Example: For Beats this would be beat.id.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>8a4f500d</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `agent.type`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Type of the agent.  The agent type always stays the same and should be given by the agent used. In case of Filebeat the agent would always be Filebeat also if two Filebeat instances are run on the same machine.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>filebeat</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `agent.version`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Version of the agent.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>6.0.0-rc2</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `cloud.account.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The cloud account or organization id used to identify different entities in a multi-tenant environment.  Examples: AWS account id, Google Cloud ORG Id, or other unique identifier.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>666777888999</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `cloud.instance.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Instance name of the host machine.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `cloud.project.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The cloud project identifier.  Examples: Google Cloud Project id, Azure Project id.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>my-project</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `cloud.provider`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Name of the cloud provider. Example values are aws, azure, gcp, or digitalocean.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>aws</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `cloud.region`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Region in which this host, resource, or service is located.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>us-east-1</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `container.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique container id.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `container.image.hash.all`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>An array of digests of the image the container was built on. Each digest consists of the hash algorithm and value in this format: `algorithm:value`. Algorithm names should align with the field names in the ECS hash field set.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>[sha256:f8fefc80e3273dc756f288a63945820d6476ad64883892c771b5e2ece6bf1b26]</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `container.image.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Name of the image the container was built on.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `container.image.tag`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Container image tags.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `container.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Container name.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `data_stream.dataset`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Data stream dataset name.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>nginx.access</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `data_stream.namespace`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Data stream namespace.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>production</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `data_stream.type`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Data stream type.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>logs</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `ecs.version`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>ECS version this event conforms to. `ecs.version` is a required field and must exist in all events.  When querying across multiple indices -- which may conform to slightly different ECS versions -- this field lets integrations adjust to the schema version of the events.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>1.0.0</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `elastic.agent.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier of this elastic agent (if one exists).</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>c2a9093e-e289-4c0a-aa44-8c32a414fa7a</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `event.action`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The action captured by the event.  This describes the information in the event. It is more specific than `event.category`. Examples are `group-add`, `process-started`, `file-created`. The value is normally defined by the implementer.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>user-password-change</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `event.category`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>This is one of four ECS Categorization Fields, and indicates the second level in the ECS category hierarchy.  `event.category` represents the "big buckets" of ECS categories. For example, filtering on `event.category:process` yields all events relating to process activity. This field is closely related to `event.type`, which is used as a subcategory.  This field is an array. This will allow proper categorization of some events that fall in multiple categories.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>authentication</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `event.created`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>`event.created` contains the date/time when the event was first read by an agent, or by your pipeline.  This field is distinct from `@timestamp` in that `@timestamp` typically contain the time extracted from the original event.  In most situations, these two timestamps will be slightly different. The difference can be used to calculate the delay between your source generating an event, and the time when your agent first processed it. This can be used to monitor your agent's or pipeline's ability to keep up with your event source.  In case the two timestamps are identical, `@timestamp` should be used.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>2016-05-23T08:05:34.857Z</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `event.dataset`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Name of the dataset.  If an event source publishes more than one type of log or events (e.g. access log, error log), the dataset is used to specify which one the event comes from.  It's recommended but not required to start the dataset name with the module name, followed by a dot, then the dataset name.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>apache.access</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `event.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique ID to describe the event.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>8a4f500d</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `event.kind`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>This is one of four ECS Categorization Fields, and indicates the highest level in the ECS category hierarchy.  `event.kind` gives high-level information about what type of information the event contains, without being specific to the contents of the event. For example, values of this field distinguish alert events from metric events.  The value of this field can be used to inform how these kinds of events should be handled. They may warrant different retention, different access control, it may also help understand whether the data is coming in at a regular interval or not.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>alert</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `event.module`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Name of the module this data is coming from.  If your monitoring agent supports the concept of modules or plugins to process events of a given source (e.g. Apache logs), `event.module` should contain the name of this module.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>apache</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `event.outcome`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>This is one of four ECS Categorization Fields, and indicates the lowest level in the ECS category hierarchy.  `event.outcome` simply denotes whether the event represents a success or a failure from the perspective of the entity that produced the event.  Note that when a single transaction is described in multiple events, each event may populate different values of `event.outcome`, according to their perspective.  Also note that in the case of a compound event (a single event that contains multiple logical events), this field should be populated with the value that best captures the overall success or failure from the perspective of the event producer.  Further note that not all events will have an associated outcome. For example, this field is generally not populated for metric events, events with `event.type:info`, or any events for which an outcome does not make logical sense.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>success</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `event.sequence`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Sequence number of the event.  The sequence number is a value published by some event sources, to make the exact ordering of events unambiguous, regardless of the timestamp precision.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `event.type`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>This is one of four ECS Categorization Fields, and indicates the third level in the ECS category hierarchy.  `event.type` represents a categorization "sub-bucket" that, when used along with the `event.category` field values, enables filtering events down to a level appropriate for single visualization.  This field is an array. This will allow proper categorization of some events that fall in multiple event types.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `group.Ext.real.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier for the group on the system/platform.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `group.Ext.real.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Name of the group.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `group.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier for the group on the system/platform.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `group.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Name of the group.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `host.architecture`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Operating system architecture.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>x86_64</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `host.hostname`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Hostname of the host.  It normally contains what the `hostname` command returns on the host machine.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `host.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique host id.  As hostname is not always unique, use values that are meaningful in your environment.  Example: The current usage of `beat.name`.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `host.ip`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Host ip addresses.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `host.mac`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Host MAC addresses.  The notation format from RFC 7042 is suggested: Each octet (that is, 8-bit byte) is represented by two [uppercase] hexadecimal digits giving the value of the octet as an unsigned integer. Successive octets are separated by a hyphen.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>["00-00-5E-00-53-23", "00-00-5E-00-53-24"]</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `host.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Name of the host.  It can contain what hostname returns on Unix systems, the fully qualified domain name (FQDN), or a name specified by the user. The recommended value is the lowercase FQDN of the host.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `host.os.Ext.variant`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>A string value or phrase that further aid to classify or qualify the operating system (OS).  For example the distribution for a Linux OS will be entered in this field.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>Ubuntu</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `host.os.family`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>OS family (such as redhat, debian, freebsd, windows).</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>debian</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `host.os.full`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Operating system name, including the version or code name.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>Mac OS Mojave</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `host.os.kernel`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Operating system kernel version as a raw string.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4.4.0-112-generic</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `host.os.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Operating system name, without the version.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>Mac OS X</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `host.os.platform`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Operating system platform (such centos, ubuntu, windows).</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>darwin</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `host.os.type`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Use the `os.type` field to categorize the operating system into one of the broad commercial families.  If the OS you're dealing with is not listed as an expected value, the field should not be populated. Please let us know by opening an issue with ECS, to propose its addition.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>macos</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `host.os.version`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Operating system version as a raw string.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>10.14.1</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `message`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>For log events the message field contains the log message, optimized for viewing in a log viewer.  For structured logs without an original message field, other fields can be concatenated to form a human-readable summary of the event.  If multiple messages exist, they can be combined into one message.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>Hello World</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `orchestrator.cluster.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique ID of the cluster.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `orchestrator.cluster.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Name of the cluster.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `orchestrator.namespace`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Namespace in which the action is taking place.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>kube-system</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `orchestrator.resource.ip`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>IP address assigned to the resource associated with the event being observed. In the case of a Kubernetes Pod, this array would contain only one element: the IP of the Pod (as opposed to the Node on which the Pod is running).</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `orchestrator.resource.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Name of the resource being acted upon.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>test-pod-cdcws</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `orchestrator.resource.parent.type`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Type or kind of the parent resource associated with the event being observed. In Kubernetes, this will be the name of a built-in workload resource (e.g., Deployment, StatefulSet, DaemonSet).</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>DaemonSet</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `orchestrator.resource.type`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Type of resource being acted upon.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>service</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.ancestry`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>An array of entity_ids indicating the ancestors for this event</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.trusted`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Whether or not the process is a trusted application</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.trusted_descendant`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Whether or not the process is a descendent of a trusted application</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.ptrace.child_pid`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>PID of the ptrace target.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.ptrace.request`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>ptrace request.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.args`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Array of process arguments, starting with the absolute path to the executable.  May be filtered to protect sensitive information.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>["/usr/bin/ssh", "-l", "user", "10.0.0.16"]</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.args_count`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Length of the process.args array.  This field can be useful for querying or performing bucket analysis on how many arguments were provided to start a process. More arguments may be an indication of suspicious activity.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.command_line`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Full command line that started the process, including the absolute path to the executable, and all arguments.  Some arguments may be filtered to protect sensitive information.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>/usr/bin/ssh -l user 10.0.0.16</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.Ext.command_line_truncated`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>No Description Found</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.end`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The time the process ended.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>2016-05-23T08:05:34.853Z</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.entity_id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier for the process.  The implementation of this is specified by the data source, but some examples of what could be used here are a process-generated UUID, Sysmon Process GUIDs, or a hash of some uniquely identifying components of a process.  Constructing a globally unique identifier is a common practice to mitigate PID reuse as well as to identify a specific process over time, across multiple monitored hosts.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>c2c455d9f99375d</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.entry_leader.args`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Array of process arguments, starting with the absolute path to the executable.  May be filtered to protect sensitive information.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>["/usr/bin/ssh", "-l", "user", "10.0.0.16"]</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.entry_leader.args_count`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Length of the process.args array.  This field can be useful for querying or performing bucket analysis on how many arguments were provided to start a process. More arguments may be an indication of suspicious activity.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.entry_leader.entity_id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier for the process.  The implementation of this is specified by the data source, but some examples of what could be used here are a process-generated UUID, Sysmon Process GUIDs, or a hash of some uniquely identifying components of a process.  Constructing a globally unique identifier is a common practice to mitigate PID reuse as well as to identify a specific process over time, across multiple monitored hosts.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>c2c455d9f99375d</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.entry_leader.entry_meta.source.ip`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>IP address of the source (IPv4 or IPv6).</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.entry_leader.entry_meta.type`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The entry type for the entry session leader. Values include: init(e.g systemd), sshd, ssm, kubelet, teleport, terminal, console  Note: This field is only set on process.session_leader.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.entry_leader.executable`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Absolute path to the process executable.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>/usr/bin/ssh</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.entry_leader.group.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier for the group on the system/platform.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.entry_leader.group.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Name of the group.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.entry_leader.interactive`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Whether the process is connected to an interactive shell.  Process interactivity is inferred from the processes file descriptors. If the character device for the controlling tty is the same as stdin and stderr for the process, the process is considered interactive.  Note: A non-interactive process can belong to an interactive session and is simply one that does not have open file descriptors reading the controlling TTY on FD 0 (stdin) or writing to the controlling TTY on FD 2 (stderr). A backgrounded process is still considered interactive if stdin and stderr are connected to the controlling TTY.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>1</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.entry_leader.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Process name.  Sometimes called program name or similar.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>ssh</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.entry_leader.parent.entity_id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier for the process.  The implementation of this is specified by the data source, but some examples of what could be used here are a process-generated UUID, Sysmon Process GUIDs, or a hash of some uniquely identifying components of a process.  Constructing a globally unique identifier is a common practice to mitigate PID reuse as well as to identify a specific process over time, across multiple monitored hosts.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>c2c455d9f99375d</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.entry_leader.parent.pid`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Process id.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4242</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.entry_leader.parent.start`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The time the process started.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>2016-05-23T08:05:34.853Z</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.entry_leader.pid`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Process id.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4242</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.entry_leader.real_group.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier for the group on the system/platform.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.entry_leader.real_group.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Name of the group.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.entry_leader.real_user.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier of the user.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>S-1-5-21-202424912787-2692429404-2351956786-1000</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.entry_leader.real_user.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Short name or login of the user.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>a.einstein</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.entry_leader.same_as_process`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>This boolean is used to identify if a leader process is the same as the top level process.  For example, if `process.group_leader.same_as_process = true`, it means the process event in question is the leader of its process group. Details under `process.*` like `pid` would be the same under `process.group_leader.*` The same applies for both `process.session_leader` and `process.entry_leader`.  This field exists to the benefit of EQL and other rule engines since it's not possible to compare equality between two fields in a single document. e.g `process.entity_id` = `process.group_leader.entity_id` (top level process is the process group leader) OR `process.entity_id` = `process.entry_leader.entity_id` (top level process is the entry session leader)  Instead these rules could be written like: `process.group_leader.same_as_process: true` OR `process.entry_leader.same_as_process: true`  Note: This field is only set on `process.entry_leader`, `process.session_leader` and `process.group_leader`.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>1</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.entry_leader.start`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The time the process started.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>2016-05-23T08:05:34.853Z</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.entry_leader.supplemental_groups.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier for the group on the system/platform.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.entry_leader.supplemental_groups.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Name of the group.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.entry_leader.tty.char_device.major`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The major number identifies the driver associated with the device. The character device's major and minor numbers can be algorithmically combined to produce the more familiar terminal identifiers such as "ttyS0" and "pts/0". For more details, please refer to the Linux kernel documentation.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.entry_leader.tty.char_device.minor`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The minor number is used only by the driver specified by the major number; other parts of the kernel don’t use it, and merely pass it along to the driver. It is common for a driver to control several devices; the minor number provides a way for the driver to differentiate among them.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>1</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.entry_leader.user.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier of the user.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>S-1-5-21-202424912787-2692429404-2351956786-1000</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.entry_leader.user.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Short name or login of the user.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>a.einstein</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.entry_leader.working_directory`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The working directory of the process.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>/home/alice</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.env_vars`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Array of environment variable bindings. Captured from a snapshot of the environment at the time of execution.  May be filtered to protect sensitive information.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>["PATH=/usr/local/bin:/usr/bin", "USER=ubuntu"]</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.executable`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Absolute path to the process executable.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>/usr/bin/ssh</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.exit_code`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The exit code of the process, if this is a termination event.  The field should be absent if there is no exit code for the event (e.g. process start).</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>137</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.group.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier for the group on the system/platform.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.group.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Name of the group.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.group_leader.args`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Array of process arguments, starting with the absolute path to the executable.  May be filtered to protect sensitive information.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>["/usr/bin/ssh", "-l", "user", "10.0.0.16"]</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.group_leader.args_count`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Length of the process.args array.  This field can be useful for querying or performing bucket analysis on how many arguments were provided to start a process. More arguments may be an indication of suspicious activity.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.group_leader.entity_id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier for the process.  The implementation of this is specified by the data source, but some examples of what could be used here are a process-generated UUID, Sysmon Process GUIDs, or a hash of some uniquely identifying components of a process.  Constructing a globally unique identifier is a common practice to mitigate PID reuse as well as to identify a specific process over time, across multiple monitored hosts.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>c2c455d9f99375d</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.group_leader.executable`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Absolute path to the process executable.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>/usr/bin/ssh</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.group_leader.group.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier for the group on the system/platform.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.group_leader.group.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Name of the group.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.group_leader.interactive`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Whether the process is connected to an interactive shell.  Process interactivity is inferred from the processes file descriptors. If the character device for the controlling tty is the same as stdin and stderr for the process, the process is considered interactive.  Note: A non-interactive process can belong to an interactive session and is simply one that does not have open file descriptors reading the controlling TTY on FD 0 (stdin) or writing to the controlling TTY on FD 2 (stderr). A backgrounded process is still considered interactive if stdin and stderr are connected to the controlling TTY.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>1</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.group_leader.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Process name.  Sometimes called program name or similar.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>ssh</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.group_leader.pid`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Process id.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4242</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.group_leader.real_group.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier for the group on the system/platform.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.group_leader.real_group.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Name of the group.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.group_leader.real_user.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier of the user.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>S-1-5-21-202424912787-2692429404-2351956786-1000</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.group_leader.real_user.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Short name or login of the user.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>a.einstein</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.group_leader.same_as_process`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>This boolean is used to identify if a leader process is the same as the top level process.  For example, if `process.group_leader.same_as_process = true`, it means the process event in question is the leader of its process group. Details under `process.*` like `pid` would be the same under `process.group_leader.*` The same applies for both `process.session_leader` and `process.entry_leader`.  This field exists to the benefit of EQL and other rule engines since it's not possible to compare equality between two fields in a single document. e.g `process.entity_id` = `process.group_leader.entity_id` (top level process is the process group leader) OR `process.entity_id` = `process.entry_leader.entity_id` (top level process is the entry session leader)  Instead these rules could be written like: `process.group_leader.same_as_process: true` OR `process.entry_leader.same_as_process: true`  Note: This field is only set on `process.entry_leader`, `process.session_leader` and `process.group_leader`.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>1</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.group_leader.start`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The time the process started.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>2016-05-23T08:05:34.853Z</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.group_leader.supplemental_groups.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier for the group on the system/platform.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.group_leader.supplemental_groups.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Name of the group.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.group_leader.tty.char_device.major`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The major number identifies the driver associated with the device. The character device's major and minor numbers can be algorithmically combined to produce the more familiar terminal identifiers such as "ttyS0" and "pts/0". For more details, please refer to the Linux kernel documentation.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.group_leader.tty.char_device.minor`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The minor number is used only by the driver specified by the major number; other parts of the kernel don’t use it, and merely pass it along to the driver. It is common for a driver to control several devices; the minor number provides a way for the driver to differentiate among them.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>1</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.group_leader.user.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier of the user.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>S-1-5-21-202424912787-2692429404-2351956786-1000</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.group_leader.user.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Short name or login of the user.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>a.einstein</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.group_leader.working_directory`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The working directory of the process.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>/home/alice</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.hash.md5`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>MD5 hash.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.hash.sha1`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>SHA1 hash.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.hash.sha256`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>SHA256 hash.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.interactive`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Whether the process is connected to an interactive shell.  Process interactivity is inferred from the processes file descriptors. If the character device for the controlling tty is the same as stdin and stderr for the process, the process is considered interactive.  Note: A non-interactive process can belong to an interactive session and is simply one that does not have open file descriptors reading the controlling TTY on FD 0 (stdin) or writing to the controlling TTY on FD 2 (stderr). A backgrounded process is still considered interactive if stdin and stderr are connected to the controlling TTY.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>1</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Process name.  Sometimes called program name or similar.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>ssh</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.args`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Array of process arguments, starting with the absolute path to the executable.  May be filtered to protect sensitive information.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>["/usr/bin/ssh", "-l", "user", "10.0.0.16"]</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.args_count`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Length of the process.args array.  This field can be useful for querying or performing bucket analysis on how many arguments were provided to start a process. More arguments may be an indication of suspicious activity.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.command_line`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Full command line that started the process, including the absolute path to the executable, and all arguments.  Some arguments may be filtered to protect sensitive information.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>/usr/bin/ssh -l user 10.0.0.16</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.Ext.command_line_truncated`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>No Description Found</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.entity_id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier for the process.  The implementation of this is specified by the data source, but some examples of what could be used here are a process-generated UUID, Sysmon Process GUIDs, or a hash of some uniquely identifying components of a process.  Constructing a globally unique identifier is a common practice to mitigate PID reuse as well as to identify a specific process over time, across multiple monitored hosts.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>c2c455d9f99375d</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.executable`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Absolute path to the process executable.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>/usr/bin/ssh</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.group.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier for the group on the system/platform.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.group.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Name of the group.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.interactive`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Whether the process is connected to an interactive shell.  Process interactivity is inferred from the processes file descriptors. If the character device for the controlling tty is the same as stdin and stderr for the process, the process is considered interactive.  Note: A non-interactive process can belong to an interactive session and is simply one that does not have open file descriptors reading the controlling TTY on FD 0 (stdin) or writing to the controlling TTY on FD 2 (stderr). A backgrounded process is still considered interactive if stdin and stderr are connected to the controlling TTY.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>1</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Process name.  Sometimes called program name or similar.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>ssh</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.pid`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Process id.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4242</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.real_group.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier for the group on the system/platform.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.real_group.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Name of the group.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.real_user.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier of the user.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>S-1-5-21-202424912787-2692429404-2351956786-1000</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.real_user.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Short name or login of the user.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>a.einstein</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.start`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The time the process started.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>2016-05-23T08:05:34.853Z</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.supplemental_groups.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier for the group on the system/platform.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.supplemental_groups.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Name of the group.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.tty.char_device.major`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The major number identifies the driver associated with the device. The character device's major and minor numbers can be algorithmically combined to produce the more familiar terminal identifiers such as "ttyS0" and "pts/0". For more details, please refer to the Linux kernel documentation.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.tty.char_device.minor`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The minor number is used only by the driver specified by the major number; other parts of the kernel don’t use it, and merely pass it along to the driver. It is common for a driver to control several devices; the minor number provides a way for the driver to differentiate among them.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>1</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.user.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier of the user.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>S-1-5-21-202424912787-2692429404-2351956786-1000</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.user.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Short name or login of the user.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>a.einstein</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.parent.working_directory`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The working directory of the process.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>/home/alice</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.pid`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Process id.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4242</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.previous.args`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Array of process arguments, starting with the absolute path to the executable.  May be filtered to protect sensitive information.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>["/usr/bin/ssh", "-l", "user", "10.0.0.16"]</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.previous.args_count`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Length of the process.args array.  This field can be useful for querying or performing bucket analysis on how many arguments were provided to start a process. More arguments may be an indication of suspicious activity.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.previous.executable`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Absolute path to the process executable.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>/usr/bin/ssh</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.real_group.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier for the group on the system/platform.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.real_group.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Name of the group.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.real_user.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier of the user.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>S-1-5-21-202424912787-2692429404-2351956786-1000</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.real_user.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Short name or login of the user.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>a.einstein</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.session_leader.args`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Array of process arguments, starting with the absolute path to the executable.  May be filtered to protect sensitive information.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>["/usr/bin/ssh", "-l", "user", "10.0.0.16"]</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.session_leader.args_count`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Length of the process.args array.  This field can be useful for querying or performing bucket analysis on how many arguments were provided to start a process. More arguments may be an indication of suspicious activity.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.session_leader.entity_id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier for the process.  The implementation of this is specified by the data source, but some examples of what could be used here are a process-generated UUID, Sysmon Process GUIDs, or a hash of some uniquely identifying components of a process.  Constructing a globally unique identifier is a common practice to mitigate PID reuse as well as to identify a specific process over time, across multiple monitored hosts.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>c2c455d9f99375d</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.session_leader.executable`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Absolute path to the process executable.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>/usr/bin/ssh</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.session_leader.group.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier for the group on the system/platform.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.session_leader.group.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Name of the group.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.session_leader.interactive`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Whether the process is connected to an interactive shell.  Process interactivity is inferred from the processes file descriptors. If the character device for the controlling tty is the same as stdin and stderr for the process, the process is considered interactive.  Note: A non-interactive process can belong to an interactive session and is simply one that does not have open file descriptors reading the controlling TTY on FD 0 (stdin) or writing to the controlling TTY on FD 2 (stderr). A backgrounded process is still considered interactive if stdin and stderr are connected to the controlling TTY.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>1</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.session_leader.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Process name.  Sometimes called program name or similar.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>ssh</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.session_leader.pid`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Process id.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4242</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.session_leader.real_group.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier for the group on the system/platform.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.session_leader.real_group.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Name of the group.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.session_leader.real_user.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier of the user.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>S-1-5-21-202424912787-2692429404-2351956786-1000</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.session_leader.real_user.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Short name or login of the user.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>a.einstein</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.session_leader.same_as_process`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>This boolean is used to identify if a leader process is the same as the top level process.  For example, if `process.group_leader.same_as_process = true`, it means the process event in question is the leader of its process group. Details under `process.*` like `pid` would be the same under `process.group_leader.*` The same applies for both `process.session_leader` and `process.entry_leader`.  This field exists to the benefit of EQL and other rule engines since it's not possible to compare equality between two fields in a single document. e.g `process.entity_id` = `process.group_leader.entity_id` (top level process is the process group leader) OR `process.entity_id` = `process.entry_leader.entity_id` (top level process is the entry session leader)  Instead these rules could be written like: `process.group_leader.same_as_process: true` OR `process.entry_leader.same_as_process: true`  Note: This field is only set on `process.entry_leader`, `process.session_leader` and `process.group_leader`.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>1</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.session_leader.start`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The time the process started.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>2016-05-23T08:05:34.853Z</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.session_leader.supplemental_groups.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier for the group on the system/platform.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.session_leader.supplemental_groups.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Name of the group.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.session_leader.tty.char_device.major`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The major number identifies the driver associated with the device. The character device's major and minor numbers can be algorithmically combined to produce the more familiar terminal identifiers such as "ttyS0" and "pts/0". For more details, please refer to the Linux kernel documentation.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>4</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.session_leader.tty.char_device.minor`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The minor number is used only by the driver specified by the major number; other parts of the kernel don’t use it, and merely pass it along to the driver. It is common for a driver to control several devices; the minor number provides a way for the driver to differentiate among them.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>1</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.session_leader.user.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier of the user.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>S-1-5-21-202424912787-2692429404-2351956786-1000</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.session_leader.user.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Short name or login of the user.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>a.einstein</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.session_leader.working_directory`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The working directory of the process.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>/home/alice</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.start`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The time the process started.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>2016-05-23T08:05:34.853Z</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.supplemental_groups.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier for the group on the system/platform.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.supplemental_groups.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Name of the group.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.user.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier of the user.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>S-1-5-21-202424912787-2692429404-2351956786-1000</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.user.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Short name or login of the user.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>a.einstein</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `process.working_directory`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>The working directory of the process.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>/home/alice</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `user.Ext.real.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>One or multiple unique identifiers of the user.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `user.Ext.real.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Short name or login of the user.</td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `user.id`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Unique identifier of the user.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>S-1-5-21-202424912787-2692429404-2351956786-1000</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

#### `user.name`

<div style='margin-left: 20px;'>
<table>
<tr><td>Description</td><td>Short name or login of the user.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Example</td><td><code>a.einstein</code></td></tr>
</table>

<br>

</div>

<hr>

