# Linux Malicious Behavior Alert

## Description

This alert is generated when a Malicious Behavior alert occurs.


## Overview

<table>
<tr>
<td><strong>OS</strong></td>
<td>Linux</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Data Stream</strong></td>
<td>logs-endpoint.alerts-*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>KQL Query</strong></td>
<td><code>event.dataset : "endpoint.alerts" and event.module : "endpoint" and host.os.type : "linux" and event.code : "behavior"</code></td>
</tr>
</table>

## Fields

<table>
<tr><td><code>@timestamp<code></td><td>Date/time when the event originated.  This is the date/time extracted from the event, typically representing when the event was generated by the source.  If the event source has no original timestamp, this value is typically populated by the first time the event was received by the pipeline.  Required field for all events.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Endpoint.policy.applied.artifacts.global.channel<code></td><td>global artifacts rollout channel</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Endpoint.policy.applied.artifacts.global.identifiers.name<code></td><td>the name of global artifact applied.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Endpoint.policy.applied.artifacts.global.identifiers.sha256<code></td><td>the sha256 of global artifacts applied.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Endpoint.policy.applied.artifacts.global.snapshot<code></td><td>the snapshot date of applied global artifacts or 'latest'</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Endpoint.policy.applied.artifacts.global.update_age<code></td><td>number of days since global artifacts were made up-to-date</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Endpoint.policy.applied.artifacts.global.version<code></td><td>the version of global artifacts applied.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Endpoint.policy.applied.artifacts.user.identifiers.name<code></td><td>the name of user artifact applied.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Endpoint.policy.applied.artifacts.user.identifiers.sha256<code></td><td>the sha256 of user artifacts applied.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Endpoint.policy.applied.artifacts.user.version<code></td><td>the version of user artifacts applied.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Endpoint.policy.applied.endpoint_policy_version<code></td><td>the version of this applied policy</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Endpoint.policy.applied.id<code></td><td>the id of the applied policy</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Endpoint.policy.applied.name<code></td><td>the name of this applied policy</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Endpoint.policy.applied.version<code></td><td>the version of this applied policy</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Events.*<code></td><td>No description found</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Events._label<code></td><td>No description found</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Events._state<code></td><td>No description found</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Responses.@timestamp<code></td><td>Timestamp in which action was taken</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Responses.action.action<code></td><td>Response action name</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Responses.action.field<code></td><td>Field in the triggering event to use as input for action</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Responses.action.state<code></td><td>Index of event in events array to use for field lookup</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Responses.action.tree<code></td><td>Indicates whether or not an action was taken against an entire process tree</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Responses.message<code></td><td>Result message</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Responses.process.entity_id<code></td><td>Entity id of actionable process</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Responses.process.name<code></td><td>Name of actionable process</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Responses.process.pid<code></td><td>pid of actionable process</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Responses.result<code></td><td>Response action result code</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>agent.build.original<code></td><td>Extended build information for the agent.  This field is intended to contain any build information that a data source may provide, no specific formatting is required.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>agent.id<code></td><td>Unique identifier of this agent (if one exists).  Example: For Beats this would be beat.id.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>agent.type<code></td><td>Type of the agent.  The agent type always stays the same and should be given by the agent used. In case of Filebeat the agent would always be Filebeat also if two Filebeat instances are run on the same machine.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>agent.version<code></td><td>Version of the agent.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>cloud.account.id<code></td><td>The cloud account or organization id used to identify different entities in a multi-tenant environment.  Examples: AWS account id, Google Cloud ORG Id, or other unique identifier.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>cloud.instance.name<code></td><td>Instance name of the host machine.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>cloud.project.id<code></td><td>The cloud project identifier.  Examples: Google Cloud Project id, Azure Project id.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>cloud.provider<code></td><td>Name of the cloud provider. Example values are aws, azure, gcp, or digitalocean.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>cloud.region<code></td><td>Region in which this host, resource, or service is located.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>container.id<code></td><td>Unique container id.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>container.image.hash.all<code></td><td>An array of digests of the image the container was built on. Each digest consists of the hash algorithm and value in this format: `algorithm:value`. Algorithm names should align with the field names in the ECS hash field set.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>container.image.name<code></td><td>Name of the image the container was built on.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>container.image.tag<code></td><td>Container image tags.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>container.name<code></td><td>Container name.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>data_stream.dataset<code></td><td>Data stream dataset name.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>data_stream.namespace<code></td><td>Data stream namespace.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>data_stream.type<code></td><td>Data stream type.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>ecs.version<code></td><td>ECS version this event conforms to. `ecs.version` is a required field and must exist in all events.  When querying across multiple indices -- which may conform to slightly different ECS versions -- this field lets integrations adjust to the schema version of the events.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>elastic.agent.id<code></td><td>Unique identifier of this elastic agent (if one exists).</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>event.action<code></td><td>The action captured by the event.  This describes the information in the event. It is more specific than `event.category`. Examples are `group-add`, `process-started`, `file-created`. The value is normally defined by the implementer.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>event.category<code></td><td>This is one of four ECS Categorization Fields, and indicates the second level in the ECS category hierarchy.  `event.category` represents the "big buckets" of ECS categories. For example, filtering on `event.category:process` yields all events relating to process activity. This field is closely related to `event.type`, which is used as a subcategory.  This field is an array. This will allow proper categorization of some events that fall in multiple categories.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>event.code<code></td><td>Identification code for this event, if one exists.  Some event sources use event codes to identify messages unambiguously, regardless of message language or wording adjustments over time. An example of this is the Windows Event ID.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>event.created<code></td><td>`event.created` contains the date/time when the event was first read by an agent, or by your pipeline.  This field is distinct from `@timestamp` in that `@timestamp` typically contain the time extracted from the original event.  In most situations, these two timestamps will be slightly different. The difference can be used to calculate the delay between your source generating an event, and the time when your agent first processed it. This can be used to monitor your agent's or pipeline's ability to keep up with your event source.  In case the two timestamps are identical, `@timestamp` should be used.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>event.dataset<code></td><td>Name of the dataset.  If an event source publishes more than one type of log or events (e.g. access log, error log), the dataset is used to specify which one the event comes from.  It's recommended but not required to start the dataset name with the module name, followed by a dot, then the dataset name.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>event.id<code></td><td>Unique ID to describe the event.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>event.kind<code></td><td>This is one of four ECS Categorization Fields, and indicates the highest level in the ECS category hierarchy.  `event.kind` gives high-level information about what type of information the event contains, without being specific to the contents of the event. For example, values of this field distinguish alert events from metric events.  The value of this field can be used to inform how these kinds of events should be handled. They may warrant different retention, different access control, it may also help understand whether the data is coming in at a regular interval or not.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>event.module<code></td><td>Name of the module this data is coming from.  If your monitoring agent supports the concept of modules or plugins to process events of a given source (e.g. Apache logs), `event.module` should contain the name of this module.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>event.outcome<code></td><td>This is one of four ECS Categorization Fields, and indicates the lowest level in the ECS category hierarchy.  `event.outcome` simply denotes whether the event represents a success or a failure from the perspective of the entity that produced the event.  Note that when a single transaction is described in multiple events, each event may populate different values of `event.outcome`, according to their perspective.  Also note that in the case of a compound event (a single event that contains multiple logical events), this field should be populated with the value that best captures the overall success or failure from the perspective of the event producer.  Further note that not all events will have an associated outcome. For example, this field is generally not populated for metric events, events with `event.type:info`, or any events for which an outcome does not make logical sense.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>event.risk_score<code></td><td>Risk score or priority of the event (e.g. security solutions). Use your system's original value here.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>event.sequence<code></td><td>Sequence number of the event.  The sequence number is a value published by some event sources, to make the exact ordering of events unambiguous, regardless of the timestamp precision.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>event.severity<code></td><td>The numeric severity of the event according to your event source.  What the different severity values mean can be different between sources and use cases. It's up to the implementer to make sure severities are consistent across events from the same source.  The Syslog severity belongs in `log.syslog.severity.code`. `event.severity` is meant to represent the severity according to the event source (e.g. firewall, IDS). If the event source does not publish its own severity, you may optionally copy the `log.syslog.severity.code` to `event.severity`.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>event.type<code></td><td>This is one of four ECS Categorization Fields, and indicates the third level in the ECS category hierarchy.  `event.type` represents a categorization "sub-bucket" that, when used along with the `event.category` field values, enables filtering events down to a level appropriate for single visualization.  This field is an array. This will allow proper categorization of some events that fall in multiple event types.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>file.*<code></td><td>No description found</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>group.Ext.real.id<code></td><td>Unique identifier for the group on the system/platform.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>group.Ext.real.name<code></td><td>Name of the group.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>group.id<code></td><td>Unique identifier for the group on the system/platform.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>group.name<code></td><td>Name of the group.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>host.architecture<code></td><td>Operating system architecture.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>host.hostname<code></td><td>Hostname of the host.  It normally contains what the `hostname` command returns on the host machine.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>host.id<code></td><td>Unique host id.  As hostname is not always unique, use values that are meaningful in your environment.  Example: The current usage of `beat.name`.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>host.ip<code></td><td>Host ip addresses.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>host.mac<code></td><td>Host MAC addresses.  The notation format from RFC 7042 is suggested: Each octet (that is, 8-bit byte) is represented by two [uppercase] hexadecimal digits giving the value of the octet as an unsigned integer. Successive octets are separated by a hyphen.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>host.name<code></td><td>Name of the host.  It can contain what hostname returns on Unix systems, the fully qualified domain name (FQDN), or a name specified by the user. The recommended value is the lowercase FQDN of the host.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>host.os.Ext.variant<code></td><td>A string value or phrase that further aid to classify or qualify the operating system (OS).  For example the distribution for a Linux OS will be entered in this field.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>host.os.family<code></td><td>OS family (such as redhat, debian, freebsd, windows).</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>host.os.full<code></td><td>Operating system name, including the version or code name.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>host.os.kernel<code></td><td>Operating system kernel version as a raw string.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>host.os.name<code></td><td>Operating system name, without the version.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>host.os.platform<code></td><td>Operating system platform (such centos, ubuntu, windows).</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>host.os.type<code></td><td>Use the `os.type` field to categorize the operating system into one of the broad commercial families.  If the OS you're dealing with is not listed as an expected value, the field should not be populated. Please let us know by opening an issue with ECS, to propose its addition.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>host.os.version<code></td><td>Operating system version as a raw string.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>message<code></td><td>For log events the message field contains the log message, optimized for viewing in a log viewer.  For structured logs without an original message field, other fields can be concatenated to form a human-readable summary of the event.  If multiple messages exist, they can be combined into one message.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>orchestrator.cluster.id<code></td><td>Unique ID of the cluster.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>orchestrator.cluster.name<code></td><td>Name of the cluster.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>orchestrator.namespace<code></td><td>Namespace in which the action is taking place.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>orchestrator.resource.ip<code></td><td>IP address assigned to the resource associated with the event being observed. In the case of a Kubernetes Pod, this array would contain only one element: the IP of the Pod (as opposed to the Node on which the Pod is running).</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>orchestrator.resource.name<code></td><td>Name of the resource being acted upon.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>orchestrator.resource.parent.type<code></td><td>Type or kind of the parent resource associated with the event being observed. In Kubernetes, this will be the name of a built-in workload resource (e.g., Deployment, StatefulSet, DaemonSet).</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>orchestrator.resource.type<code></td><td>Type of resource being acted upon.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.*<code></td><td>No description found</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>rule.description<code></td><td>The description of the rule generating the event.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>rule.id<code></td><td>A rule ID that is unique within the scope of an agent, observer, or other entity using the rule for detection of this event.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>rule.name<code></td><td>The name of the rule or signature generating the event.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>rule.reference<code></td><td>Reference URL to additional information about the rule used to generate this event.  The URL can point to the vendor's documentation about the rule. If that's not available, it can also be a link to a more general page describing this type of alert.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>rule.ruleset<code></td><td>Name of the ruleset, policy, group, or parent category in which the rule used to generate this event is a member.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>rule.version<code></td><td>The version / revision of the rule being used for analysis.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>threat.framework<code></td><td>Name of the threat framework used to further categorize and classify the tactic and technique of the reported threat. Framework classification can be provided by detecting systems, evaluated at ingest time, or retrospectively tagged to events.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>threat.tactic.id<code></td><td>The id of tactic used by this threat. You can use a MITRE ATT&CK® tactic, for example. (ex. https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0002/ )</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>threat.tactic.name<code></td><td>Name of the type of tactic used by this threat. You can use a MITRE ATT&CK® tactic, for example. (ex. https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0002/)</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>threat.tactic.reference<code></td><td>The reference url of tactic used by this threat. You can use a MITRE ATT&CK® tactic, for example. (ex. https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0002/ )</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>threat.technique.id<code></td><td>The id of technique used by this threat. You can use a MITRE ATT&CK® technique, for example. (ex. https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/)</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>threat.technique.name<code></td><td>The name of technique used by this threat. You can use a MITRE ATT&CK® technique, for example. (ex. https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/)</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>threat.technique.reference<code></td><td>The reference url of technique used by this threat. You can use a MITRE ATT&CK® technique, for example. (ex. https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/)</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>threat.technique.subtechnique<code></td><td>No description found</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>user.Ext.real.id<code></td><td>One or multiple unique identifiers of the user.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>user.Ext.real.name<code></td><td>Short name or login of the user.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>user.id<code></td><td>Unique identifier of the user.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>user.name<code></td><td>Short name or login of the user.</td></tr>
</table>
