# macOS DNS Lookup Result

## Description

This event is generated when results are returned for a DNS lookup request.


## Overview

<table>
<tr>
<td><strong>OS</strong></td>
<td>macOS</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Data Stream</strong></td>
<td>logs-endpoint.events.network-*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>KQL Query</strong></td>
<td><code>event.dataset : "endpoint.events.network" and event.module : "endpoint" and host.os.type : "macos" and event.action : "lookup_result"</code></td>
</tr>
</table>

## Fields

#### `@timestamp`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Date/time when the event originated.  This is the date/time extracted from the event, typically representing when the event was generated by the source.  If the event source has no original timestamp, this value is typically populated by the first time the event was received by the pipeline.  Required field for all events.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>2016-05-23T08:05:34.853Z</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `agent.id`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Unique identifier of this agent (if one exists).  Example: For Beats this would be beat.id.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>8a4f500d</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `agent.type`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Type of the agent.  The agent type always stays the same and should be given by the agent used. In case of Filebeat the agent would always be Filebeat also if two Filebeat instances are run on the same machine.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>ECS Example</strong></td><td><code>endpoint</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `agent.version`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Version of the agent.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>6.0.0-rc2</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `data_stream.dataset`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Data stream dataset name.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>nginx.access</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `data_stream.namespace`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Data stream namespace.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>production</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `data_stream.type`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Data stream type.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>logs</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `destination.address`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Some event destination addresses are defined ambiguously. The event will sometimes list an IP, a domain or a unix socket.  You should always store the raw address in the `.address` field.  Then it should be duplicated to `.ip` or `.domain`, depending on which one it is.</td></tr>
</table>

#### `destination.ip`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>IP address of the destination (IPv4 or IPv6).</td></tr>
</table>

#### `destination.port`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Port of the destination.</td></tr>
</table>

#### `dns.Ext.options`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>DNS options field, uint64, representing as a keyword to avoid overflows in ES</td></tr>
</table>

#### `dns.Ext.status`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>DNS status field, uint32</td></tr>
</table>

#### `dns.question.name`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>The name being queried.  If the name field contains non-printable characters (below 32 or above 126), those characters should be represented as escaped base 10 integers (\DDD). Back slashes and quotes should be escaped. Tabs, carriage returns, and line feeds should be converted to \t, \r, and \n respectively.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>www.example.com</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `dns.question.type`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>The type of record being queried.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>AAAA</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `dns.resolved_ip`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Array containing all IPs seen in `answers.data`.  The `answers` array can be difficult to use, because of the variety of data formats it can contain. Extracting all IP addresses seen in there to `dns.resolved_ip` makes it possible to index them as IP addresses, and makes them easier to visualize and query for.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>["10.10.10.10", "10.10.10.11"]</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `ecs.version`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>ECS version this event conforms to. `ecs.version` is a required field and must exist in all events.  When querying across multiple indices -- which may conform to slightly different ECS versions -- this field lets integrations adjust to the schema version of the events.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>1.0.0</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `elastic.agent.id`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Unique identifier of this elastic agent (if one exists).</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>c2a9093e-e289-4c0a-aa44-8c32a414fa7a</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `event.action`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>The action captured by the event.  This describes the information in the event. It is more specific than `event.category`. Examples are `group-add`, `process-started`, `file-created`. The value is normally defined by the implementer.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>user-password-change</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `event.category`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>This is one of four ECS Categorization Fields, and indicates the second level in the ECS category hierarchy.  `event.category` represents the "big buckets" of ECS categories. For example, filtering on `event.category:process` yields all events relating to process activity. This field is closely related to `event.type`, which is used as a subcategory.  This field is an array. This will allow proper categorization of some events that fall in multiple categories.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>authentication</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `event.created`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>`event.created` contains the date/time when the event was first read by an agent, or by your pipeline.  This field is distinct from `@timestamp` in that `@timestamp` typically contain the time extracted from the original event.  In most situations, these two timestamps will be slightly different. The difference can be used to calculate the delay between your source generating an event, and the time when your agent first processed it. This can be used to monitor your agent's or pipeline's ability to keep up with your event source.  In case the two timestamps are identical, `@timestamp` should be used.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>2016-05-23T08:05:34.857Z</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `event.dataset`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Name of the dataset.  If an event source publishes more than one type of log or events (e.g. access log, error log), the dataset is used to specify which one the event comes from.  It's recommended but not required to start the dataset name with the module name, followed by a dot, then the dataset name.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>apache.access</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `event.id`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Unique ID to describe the event.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>8a4f500d</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `event.kind`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>This is one of four ECS Categorization Fields, and indicates the highest level in the ECS category hierarchy.  `event.kind` gives high-level information about what type of information the event contains, without being specific to the contents of the event. For example, values of this field distinguish alert events from metric events.  The value of this field can be used to inform how these kinds of events should be handled. They may warrant different retention, different access control, it may also help understand whether the data is coming in at a regular interval or not.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>alert</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `event.module`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Name of the module this data is coming from.  If your monitoring agent supports the concept of modules or plugins to process events of a given source (e.g. Apache logs), `event.module` should contain the name of this module.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>apache</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `event.outcome`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>This is one of four ECS Categorization Fields, and indicates the lowest level in the ECS category hierarchy.  `event.outcome` simply denotes whether the event represents a success or a failure from the perspective of the entity that produced the event.  Note that when a single transaction is described in multiple events, each event may populate different values of `event.outcome`, according to their perspective.  Also note that in the case of a compound event (a single event that contains multiple logical events), this field should be populated with the value that best captures the overall success or failure from the perspective of the event producer.  Further note that not all events will have an associated outcome. For example, this field is generally not populated for metric events, events with `event.type:info`, or any events for which an outcome does not make logical sense.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>success</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `event.sequence`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Sequence number of the event.  The sequence number is a value published by some event sources, to make the exact ordering of events unambiguous, regardless of the timestamp precision.</td></tr>
</table>

#### `event.type`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>This is one of four ECS Categorization Fields, and indicates the third level in the ECS category hierarchy.  `event.type` represents a categorization "sub-bucket" that, when used along with the `event.category` field values, enables filtering events down to a level appropriate for single visualization.  This field is an array. This will allow proper categorization of some events that fall in multiple event types.</td></tr>
</table>

#### `group.Ext.real.id`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Unique identifier for the group on the system/platform.</td></tr>
</table>

#### `group.Ext.real.name`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Name of the group.</td></tr>
</table>

#### `group.id`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Unique identifier for the group on the system/platform.</td></tr>
</table>

#### `group.name`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Name of the group.</td></tr>
</table>

#### `host.architecture`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Operating system architecture.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>x86_64</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `host.hostname`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Hostname of the host.  It normally contains what the `hostname` command returns on the host machine.</td></tr>
</table>

#### `host.id`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Unique host id.  As hostname is not always unique, use values that are meaningful in your environment.  Example: The current usage of `beat.name`.</td></tr>
</table>

#### `host.ip`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Host ip addresses.</td></tr>
</table>

#### `host.mac`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Host MAC addresses.  The notation format from RFC 7042 is suggested: Each octet (that is, 8-bit byte) is represented by two [uppercase] hexadecimal digits giving the value of the octet as an unsigned integer. Successive octets are separated by a hyphen.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>["00-00-5E-00-53-23", "00-00-5E-00-53-24"]</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `host.name`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Name of the host.  It can contain what hostname returns on Unix systems, the fully qualified domain name (FQDN), or a name specified by the user. The recommended value is the lowercase FQDN of the host.</td></tr>
</table>

#### `host.os.Ext.variant`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>A string value or phrase that further aid to classify or qualify the operating system (OS).  For example the distribution for a Linux OS will be entered in this field.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>Ubuntu</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `host.os.family`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>OS family (such as redhat, debian, freebsd, windows).</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>debian</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `host.os.full`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Operating system name, including the version or code name.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>Mac OS Mojave</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `host.os.kernel`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Operating system kernel version as a raw string.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>4.4.0-112-generic</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `host.os.name`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Operating system name, without the version.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>Mac OS X</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `host.os.platform`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Operating system platform (such centos, ubuntu, windows).</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>darwin</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `host.os.type`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Use the `os.type` field to categorize the operating system into one of the broad commercial families.  If the OS you're dealing with is not listed as an expected value, the field should not be populated. Please let us know by opening an issue with ECS, to propose its addition.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>macos</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `host.os.version`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Operating system version as a raw string.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>10.14.1</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `message`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>For log events the message field contains the log message, optimized for viewing in a log viewer.  For structured logs without an original message field, other fields can be concatenated to form a human-readable summary of the event.  If multiple messages exist, they can be combined into one message.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>Hello World</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `network.protocol`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>In the OSI Model this would be the Application Layer protocol. For example, `http`, `dns`, or `ssh`.  The field value must be normalized to lowercase for querying.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>http</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `network.transport`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Same as network.iana_number, but instead using the Keyword name of the transport layer (udp, tcp, ipv6-icmp, etc.)  The field value must be normalized to lowercase for querying.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>tcp</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `network.type`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>In the OSI Model this would be the Network Layer. ipv4, ipv6, ipsec, pim, etc  The field value must be normalized to lowercase for querying.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>ipv4</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `process.Ext.ancestry`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>An array of entity_ids indicating the ancestors for this event</td></tr>
</table>

#### `process.code_signature.exists`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Boolean to capture if a signature is present.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>true</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `process.code_signature.signing_id`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>The identifier used to sign the process.  This is used to identify the application manufactured by a software vendor. The field is relevant to Apple *OS only.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>com.apple.xpc.proxy</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `process.code_signature.status`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Additional information about the certificate status.  This is useful for logging cryptographic errors with the certificate validity or trust status. Leave unpopulated if the validity or trust of the certificate was unchecked.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>ERROR_UNTRUSTED_ROOT</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `process.code_signature.subject_name`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Subject name of the code signer</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>Microsoft Corporation</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `process.code_signature.team_id`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>The team identifier used to sign the process.  This is used to identify the team or vendor of a software product. The field is relevant to Apple *OS only.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>EQHXZ8M8AV</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `process.code_signature.trusted`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Stores the trust status of the certificate chain.  Validating the trust of the certificate chain may be complicated, and this field should only be populated by tools that actively check the status.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>true</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `process.command_line`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Full command line that started the process, including the absolute path to the executable, and all arguments.  Some arguments may be filtered to protect sensitive information.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>/usr/bin/ssh -l user 10.0.0.16</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `process.entity_id`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Unique identifier for the process.  The implementation of this is specified by the data source, but some examples of what could be used here are a process-generated UUID, Sysmon Process GUIDs, or a hash of some uniquely identifying components of a process.  Constructing a globally unique identifier is a common practice to mitigate PID reuse as well as to identify a specific process over time, across multiple monitored hosts.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>c2c455d9f99375d</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `process.executable`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Absolute path to the process executable.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>/usr/bin/ssh</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `process.name`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Process name.  Sometimes called program name or similar.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>ssh</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `process.parent.entity_id`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Unique identifier for the process.  The implementation of this is specified by the data source, but some examples of what could be used here are a process-generated UUID, Sysmon Process GUIDs, or a hash of some uniquely identifying components of a process.  Constructing a globally unique identifier is a common practice to mitigate PID reuse as well as to identify a specific process over time, across multiple monitored hosts.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>c2c455d9f99375d</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `process.pid`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Process id.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>4242</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `source.address`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Some event source addresses are defined ambiguously. The event will sometimes list an IP, a domain or a unix socket.  You should always store the raw address in the `.address` field.  Then it should be duplicated to `.ip` or `.domain`, depending on which one it is.</td></tr>
</table>

#### `source.ip`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>IP address of the source (IPv4 or IPv6).</td></tr>
</table>

#### `source.port`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Port of the source.</td></tr>
</table>

#### `user.Ext.real.id`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>One or multiple unique identifiers of the user.</td></tr>
</table>

#### `user.Ext.real.name`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Short name or login of the user.</td></tr>
</table>

#### `user.id`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Unique identifier of the user.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>S-1-5-21-202424912787-2692429404-2351956786-1000</code></td></tr>
</table>

#### `user.name`

<table>
<tr><td><strong>Description</strong></td><td>Short name or login of the user.</td></tr>
<tr><td><strong>Endpoint Example</strong></td><td><code>a.einstein</code></td></tr>
</table>

