# Windows Shellcode Thread Alert

## Description

This alert is generated when a Shellcode Threat alert occurs.


## Overview

<table>
<tr>
<td><strong>OS</strong></td>
<td>Windows</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Data Stream</strong></td>
<td>logs-endpoint.alerts-*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>KQL Query</strong></td>
<td><code>event.dataset : "endpoint.alerts" and event.module : "endpoint" and host.os.type : "windows" and event.code : "shellcode_thread"</code></td>
</tr>
</table>

## Fields

<table>
<tr><td><code>@timestamp<code></td><td>Date/time when the event originated.  This is the date/time extracted from the event, typically representing when the event was generated by the source.  If the event source has no original timestamp, this value is typically populated by the first time the event was received by the pipeline.  Required field for all events.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Endpoint.policy.applied.artifacts.global.channel<code></td><td>global artifacts rollout channel</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Endpoint.policy.applied.artifacts.global.identifiers.name<code></td><td>the name of global artifact applied.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Endpoint.policy.applied.artifacts.global.identifiers.sha256<code></td><td>the sha256 of global artifacts applied.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Endpoint.policy.applied.artifacts.global.snapshot<code></td><td>the snapshot date of applied global artifacts or 'latest'</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Endpoint.policy.applied.artifacts.global.update_age<code></td><td>number of days since global artifacts were made up-to-date</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Endpoint.policy.applied.artifacts.global.version<code></td><td>the version of global artifacts applied.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Endpoint.policy.applied.artifacts.user.identifiers.name<code></td><td>the name of user artifact applied.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Endpoint.policy.applied.artifacts.user.identifiers.sha256<code></td><td>the sha256 of user artifacts applied.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Endpoint.policy.applied.artifacts.user.version<code></td><td>the version of user artifacts applied.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Endpoint.policy.applied.endpoint_policy_version<code></td><td>the version of this applied policy</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Endpoint.policy.applied.id<code></td><td>the id of the applied policy</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Endpoint.policy.applied.name<code></td><td>the name of this applied policy</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Endpoint.policy.applied.version<code></td><td>the version of this applied policy</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Memory_protection.cross_session<code></td><td>Is this process injecting across operating system sessions?</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Memory_protection.feature<code></td><td>Memory Protection feature which triggered the alert.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Memory_protection.parent_to_child<code></td><td>Is this process injecting into its child?</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Memory_protection.self_injection<code></td><td>Is this alert about a process injecting into itself?</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Memory_protection.unique_key_v1<code></td><td>A unique key created by hashing several characteristics of this alert.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Memory_protection.unique_key_v2<code></td><td>A unique key created by hashing several characteristics of this alert.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Responses.@timestamp<code></td><td>Timestamp in which action was taken</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Responses.action.action<code></td><td>Response action name</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Responses.action.file.attributes<code></td><td>Destination file attributes</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Responses.action.file.path<code></td><td>Destination file path</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Responses.action.file.reason<code></td><td>Combined USN file modification reason</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Responses.action.key.actions<code></td><td>Actions taken by Registry Rollback for key</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Responses.action.key.path<code></td><td>NT path of registry key recovered by Rollback</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Responses.action.key.values.actions<code></td><td>Actions taken by Registry Rollback for value</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Responses.action.key.values.name<code></td><td>Value name recovered by Rollback</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Responses.action.source.attributes<code></td><td>Source file attributes</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Responses.action.source.path<code></td><td>Source file path</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Responses.message<code></td><td>Result message</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Responses.result<code></td><td>Response action result code</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.architecture<code></td><td>Process architecture.  It can differ from host architecture.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.code_signature.exists<code></td><td>Boolean to capture if a signature is present.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.dll.Ext.code_signature.exists<code></td><td>Boolean to capture if a signature is present.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.dll.Ext.code_signature.status<code></td><td>Additional information about the certificate status.  This is useful for logging cryptographic errors with the certificate validity or trust status. Leave unpopulated if the validity or trust of the certificate was unchecked.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.dll.Ext.code_signature.subject_name<code></td><td>Subject name of the code signer</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.dll.Ext.code_signature.trusted<code></td><td>Stores the trust status of the certificate chain.  Validating the trust of the certificate chain may be complicated, and this field should only be populated by tools that actively check the status.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.dll.Ext.mapped_address<code></td><td>The base address where this module is loaded.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.dll.Ext.mapped_size<code></td><td>The size of this module's memory mapping, in bytes.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.dll.code_signature.exists<code></td><td>Boolean to capture if a signature is present.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.dll.code_signature.status<code></td><td>Additional information about the certificate status.  This is useful for logging cryptographic errors with the certificate validity or trust status. Leave unpopulated if the validity or trust of the certificate was unchecked.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.dll.code_signature.subject_name<code></td><td>Subject name of the code signer</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.dll.code_signature.trusted<code></td><td>Stores the trust status of the certificate chain.  Validating the trust of the certificate chain may be complicated, and this field should only be populated by tools that actively check the status.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.dll.hash.md5<code></td><td>MD5 hash.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.dll.hash.sha1<code></td><td>SHA1 hash.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.dll.hash.sha256<code></td><td>SHA256 hash.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.dll.name<code></td><td>Name of the library.  This generally maps to the name of the file on disk.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.dll.path<code></td><td>Full file path of the library.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.memory_region.allocation_base<code></td><td>Base address of the memory allocation containing the memory region.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.memory_region.allocation_protection<code></td><td>Original memory protection requested when the memory was allocated. Example values include "RWX" and "R-X".</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.memory_region.allocation_size<code></td><td>Original memory size requested when the memory was allocated.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.memory_region.allocation_type<code></td><td>The memory allocation type. Example values include "IMAGE", "MAPPED", and "PRIVATE".</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.memory_region.bytes_address<code></td><td>The address where bytes_compressed begins.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.memory_region.bytes_allocation_offset<code></td><td>Offset of bytes_address the memory allocation. Equal to bytes_address - allocation_base.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.memory_region.mapped_path<code></td><td>If the memory corresponds to a file mapping, this is the file's path.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.memory_region.memory_pe_detected<code></td><td>Whether an executable file was found in memory.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.memory_region.region_base<code></td><td>Base address of the memory region.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.memory_region.region_protection<code></td><td>Memory protection of the memory region. Example values include "RWX" and "R-X".</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.memory_region.region_size<code></td><td>Size of the memory region.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.memory_region.region_state<code></td><td>State of the memory region. Example values include "RESERVE", "COMMIT", and "FREE".</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.memory_region.strings<code></td><td>Array of strings found within the memory region.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.protection<code></td><td>Indicates the protection level of this process.  Uses the same syntax as Process Explorer. Examples include PsProtectedSignerWinTcb, PsProtectedSignerWinTcb-Light, and PsProtectedSignerWindows-Light.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.token.domain<code></td><td>Domain of token user.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.token.elevation<code></td><td>Whether the token is elevated or not</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.token.elevation_type<code></td><td>What level of elevation the token has</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.token.integrity_level_name<code></td><td>Human readable integrity level.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.token.sid<code></td><td>Token user's Security Identifier (SID).</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.token.user<code></td><td>Username of token owner.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.Ext.user<code></td><td>User associated with the running process.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.args<code></td><td>Array of process arguments, starting with the absolute path to the executable.  May be filtered to protect sensitive information.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.args_count<code></td><td>Length of the process.args array.  This field can be useful for querying or performing bucket analysis on how many arguments were provided to start a process. More arguments may be an indication of suspicious activity.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.code_signature.exists<code></td><td>Boolean to capture if a signature is present.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.command_line<code></td><td>Full command line that started the process, including the absolute path to the executable, and all arguments.  Some arguments may be filtered to protect sensitive information.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.entity_id<code></td><td>Unique identifier for the process.  The implementation of this is specified by the data source, but some examples of what could be used here are a process-generated UUID, Sysmon Process GUIDs, or a hash of some uniquely identifying components of a process.  Constructing a globally unique identifier is a common practice to mitigate PID reuse as well as to identify a specific process over time, across multiple monitored hosts.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.executable<code></td><td>Absolute path to the process executable.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.hash.md5<code></td><td>MD5 hash.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.hash.sha1<code></td><td>SHA1 hash.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.hash.sha256<code></td><td>SHA256 hash.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.name<code></td><td>Process name.  Sometimes called program name or similar.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.parent.Ext.architecture<code></td><td>Process architecture.  It can differ from host architecture.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.parent.Ext.code_signature.exists<code></td><td>Boolean to capture if a signature is present.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.parent.Ext.code_signature.status<code></td><td>Additional information about the certificate status.  This is useful for logging cryptographic errors with the certificate validity or trust status. Leave unpopulated if the validity or trust of the certificate was unchecked.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.parent.Ext.code_signature.subject_name<code></td><td>Subject name of the code signer</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.parent.Ext.code_signature.trusted<code></td><td>Stores the trust status of the certificate chain.  Validating the trust of the certificate chain may be complicated, and this field should only be populated by tools that actively check the status.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.parent.Ext.protection<code></td><td>Indicates the protection level of this process.  Uses the same syntax as Process Explorer. Examples include PsProtectedSignerWinTcb, PsProtectedSignerWinTcb-Light, and PsProtectedSignerWindows-Light.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.parent.Ext.user<code></td><td>User associated with the running process.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.parent.args<code></td><td>Array of process arguments, starting with the absolute path to the executable.  May be filtered to protect sensitive information.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.parent.args_count<code></td><td>Length of the process.args array.  This field can be useful for querying or performing bucket analysis on how many arguments were provided to start a process. More arguments may be an indication of suspicious activity.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.parent.code_signature.exists<code></td><td>Boolean to capture if a signature is present.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.parent.code_signature.status<code></td><td>Additional information about the certificate status.  This is useful for logging cryptographic errors with the certificate validity or trust status. Leave unpopulated if the validity or trust of the certificate was unchecked.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.parent.code_signature.subject_name<code></td><td>Subject name of the code signer</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.parent.code_signature.trusted<code></td><td>Stores the trust status of the certificate chain.  Validating the trust of the certificate chain may be complicated, and this field should only be populated by tools that actively check the status.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.parent.command_line<code></td><td>Full command line that started the process, including the absolute path to the executable, and all arguments.  Some arguments may be filtered to protect sensitive information.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.parent.entity_id<code></td><td>Unique identifier for the process.  The implementation of this is specified by the data source, but some examples of what could be used here are a process-generated UUID, Sysmon Process GUIDs, or a hash of some uniquely identifying components of a process.  Constructing a globally unique identifier is a common practice to mitigate PID reuse as well as to identify a specific process over time, across multiple monitored hosts.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.parent.executable<code></td><td>Absolute path to the process executable.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.parent.hash.md5<code></td><td>MD5 hash.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.parent.hash.sha1<code></td><td>SHA1 hash.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.parent.hash.sha256<code></td><td>SHA256 hash.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.parent.name<code></td><td>Process name.  Sometimes called program name or similar.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.parent.pid<code></td><td>Process id.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.parent.ppid<code></td><td>Parent process' pid.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.parent.start<code></td><td>The time the process started.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.parent.uptime<code></td><td>Seconds the process has been up.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.pid<code></td><td>Process id.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.ppid<code></td><td>Parent process' pid.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.start<code></td><td>The time the process started.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.thread.Ext.call_stack.instruction_pointer<code></td><td>The return address of this stack frame.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.thread.Ext.call_stack.memory_section.memory_address<code></td><td>Base address of the memory region containing `instruction_pointer`.  Corresponds to `MEMORY_BASIC_INFORMATION.BaseAddress`</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.thread.Ext.call_stack.memory_section.memory_size<code></td><td>Size of the memory region containing `instruction_pointer`.  Corresponds to `MEMORY_BASIC_INFORMATION.RegionSize`</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.thread.Ext.call_stack.memory_section.protection<code></td><td>Memory protection flags of this memory region.  Corresponds to `MEMORY_BASIC_INFORMATION.Protect`</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.thread.Ext.call_stack.module_name<code></td><td>The name of the DLL/module containing `instruction_pointer`.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.thread.Ext.call_stack.module_path<code></td><td>The path to the DLL/module containing `instruction_pointer`.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.thread.Ext.call_stack.symbol_info<code></td><td>The nearest symbol for `instruction_pointer`.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.thread.Ext.call_stack_summary<code></td><td>Concatentation of the non-repeated modules in the call stack.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.thread.Ext.original_start_address<code></td><td>When a trampoline was detected, this indicates the original content for the thread start address in memory.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.thread.Ext.original_start_address_allocation_offset<code></td><td>When a trampoline was detected, this indicates the offset of original_start_address from the allocation base.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.thread.Ext.original_start_address_bytes<code></td><td>When a trampoline was detected, this holds the hex-encoded bytes at the original thread start address.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.thread.Ext.original_start_address_bytes_disasm<code></td><td>When a trampoline was detected, this holds the disassembled code at the original thread start address.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.thread.Ext.original_start_address_bytes_disasm_hash<code></td><td>When a trampoline was detected, this holds the bytes at the original thread start address, with immediate values capped to 0x100, disassembled into human-readable assembly code, then hashed.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.thread.Ext.original_start_address_module<code></td><td>When a trampoline was detected, this indicates the original content for the dll/module where the thread began execution.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.thread.Ext.start_address<code></td><td>Memory address where the thread began execution.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.thread.Ext.start_address_allocation_offset<code></td><td>Offset of start_address into the memory allocation. Equal to start_address - start_address_details.allocation_base.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.thread.Ext.start_address_bytes<code></td><td>A few (typically 32) raw opcode bytes at the thread start address, hex-encoded.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.thread.Ext.start_address_bytes_disasm<code></td><td>The bytes at the thread start address, disassembled into human-readable assembly code.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.thread.Ext.start_address_bytes_disasm_hash<code></td><td>The bytes at the thread start address, with immediate values capped to 0x100, disassembled into human-readable assembly code, then hashed.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.thread.Ext.start_address_module<code></td><td>The dll/module where the thread began execution.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.thread.id<code></td><td>Thread ID.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>Target.process.uptime<code></td><td>Seconds the process has been up.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>agent.build.original<code></td><td>Extended build information for the agent.  This field is intended to contain any build information that a data source may provide, no specific formatting is required.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>agent.id<code></td><td>Unique identifier of this agent (if one exists).  Example: For Beats this would be beat.id.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>agent.type<code></td><td>Type of the agent.  The agent type always stays the same and should be given by the agent used. In case of Filebeat the agent would always be Filebeat also if two Filebeat instances are run on the same machine.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>agent.version<code></td><td>Version of the agent.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>data_stream.dataset<code></td><td>Data stream dataset name.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>data_stream.namespace<code></td><td>Data stream namespace.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>data_stream.type<code></td><td>Data stream type.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>ecs.version<code></td><td>ECS version this event conforms to. `ecs.version` is a required field and must exist in all events.  When querying across multiple indices -- which may conform to slightly different ECS versions -- this field lets integrations adjust to the schema version of the events.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>elastic.agent.id<code></td><td>Unique identifier of this elastic agent (if one exists).</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>event.action<code></td><td>The action captured by the event.  This describes the information in the event. It is more specific than `event.category`. Examples are `group-add`, `process-started`, `file-created`. The value is normally defined by the implementer.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>event.category<code></td><td>This is one of four ECS Categorization Fields, and indicates the second level in the ECS category hierarchy.  `event.category` represents the "big buckets" of ECS categories. For example, filtering on `event.category:process` yields all events relating to process activity. This field is closely related to `event.type`, which is used as a subcategory.  This field is an array. This will allow proper categorization of some events that fall in multiple categories.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>event.code<code></td><td>Identification code for this event, if one exists.  Some event sources use event codes to identify messages unambiguously, regardless of message language or wording adjustments over time. An example of this is the Windows Event ID.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>event.created<code></td><td>`event.created` contains the date/time when the event was first read by an agent, or by your pipeline.  This field is distinct from `@timestamp` in that `@timestamp` typically contain the time extracted from the original event.  In most situations, these two timestamps will be slightly different. The difference can be used to calculate the delay between your source generating an event, and the time when your agent first processed it. This can be used to monitor your agent's or pipeline's ability to keep up with your event source.  In case the two timestamps are identical, `@timestamp` should be used.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>event.dataset<code></td><td>Name of the dataset.  If an event source publishes more than one type of log or events (e.g. access log, error log), the dataset is used to specify which one the event comes from.  It's recommended but not required to start the dataset name with the module name, followed by a dot, then the dataset name.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>event.id<code></td><td>Unique ID to describe the event.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>event.kind<code></td><td>This is one of four ECS Categorization Fields, and indicates the highest level in the ECS category hierarchy.  `event.kind` gives high-level information about what type of information the event contains, without being specific to the contents of the event. For example, values of this field distinguish alert events from metric events.  The value of this field can be used to inform how these kinds of events should be handled. They may warrant different retention, different access control, it may also help understand whether the data is coming in at a regular interval or not.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>event.module<code></td><td>Name of the module this data is coming from.  If your monitoring agent supports the concept of modules or plugins to process events of a given source (e.g. Apache logs), `event.module` should contain the name of this module.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>event.outcome<code></td><td>This is one of four ECS Categorization Fields, and indicates the lowest level in the ECS category hierarchy.  `event.outcome` simply denotes whether the event represents a success or a failure from the perspective of the entity that produced the event.  Note that when a single transaction is described in multiple events, each event may populate different values of `event.outcome`, according to their perspective.  Also note that in the case of a compound event (a single event that contains multiple logical events), this field should be populated with the value that best captures the overall success or failure from the perspective of the event producer.  Further note that not all events will have an associated outcome. For example, this field is generally not populated for metric events, events with `event.type:info`, or any events for which an outcome does not make logical sense.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>event.risk_score<code></td><td>Risk score or priority of the event (e.g. security solutions). Use your system's original value here.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>event.sequence<code></td><td>Sequence number of the event.  The sequence number is a value published by some event sources, to make the exact ordering of events unambiguous, regardless of the timestamp precision.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>event.severity<code></td><td>The numeric severity of the event according to your event source.  What the different severity values mean can be different between sources and use cases. It's up to the implementer to make sure severities are consistent across events from the same source.  The Syslog severity belongs in `log.syslog.severity.code`. `event.severity` is meant to represent the severity according to the event source (e.g. firewall, IDS). If the event source does not publish its own severity, you may optionally copy the `log.syslog.severity.code` to `event.severity`.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>event.type<code></td><td>This is one of four ECS Categorization Fields, and indicates the third level in the ECS category hierarchy.  `event.type` represents a categorization "sub-bucket" that, when used along with the `event.category` field values, enables filtering events down to a level appropriate for single visualization.  This field is an array. This will allow proper categorization of some events that fall in multiple event types.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>host.architecture<code></td><td>Operating system architecture.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>host.hostname<code></td><td>Hostname of the host.  It normally contains what the `hostname` command returns on the host machine.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>host.id<code></td><td>Unique host id.  As hostname is not always unique, use values that are meaningful in your environment.  Example: The current usage of `beat.name`.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>host.ip<code></td><td>Host ip addresses.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>host.mac<code></td><td>Host MAC addresses.  The notation format from RFC 7042 is suggested: Each octet (that is, 8-bit byte) is represented by two [uppercase] hexadecimal digits giving the value of the octet as an unsigned integer. Successive octets are separated by a hyphen.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>host.name<code></td><td>Name of the host.  It can contain what hostname returns on Unix systems, the fully qualified domain name (FQDN), or a name specified by the user. The recommended value is the lowercase FQDN of the host.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>host.os.Ext.variant<code></td><td>A string value or phrase that further aid to classify or qualify the operating system (OS).  For example the distribution for a Linux OS will be entered in this field.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>host.os.family<code></td><td>OS family (such as redhat, debian, freebsd, windows).</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>host.os.full<code></td><td>Operating system name, including the version or code name.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>host.os.kernel<code></td><td>Operating system kernel version as a raw string.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>host.os.name<code></td><td>Operating system name, without the version.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>host.os.platform<code></td><td>Operating system platform (such centos, ubuntu, windows).</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>host.os.type<code></td><td>Use the `os.type` field to categorize the operating system into one of the broad commercial families.  If the OS you're dealing with is not listed as an expected value, the field should not be populated. Please let us know by opening an issue with ECS, to propose its addition.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>host.os.version<code></td><td>Operating system version as a raw string.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>message<code></td><td>For log events the message field contains the log message, optimized for viewing in a log viewer.  For structured logs without an original message field, other fields can be concatenated to form a human-readable summary of the event.  If multiple messages exist, they can be combined into one message.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.Ext.ancestry<code></td><td>An array of entity_ids indicating the ancestors for this event</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.Ext.architecture<code></td><td>Process architecture.  It can differ from host architecture.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.Ext.code_signature.exists<code></td><td>Boolean to capture if a signature is present.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.Ext.dll.Ext.code_signature.exists<code></td><td>Boolean to capture if a signature is present.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.Ext.dll.Ext.code_signature.status<code></td><td>Additional information about the certificate status.  This is useful for logging cryptographic errors with the certificate validity or trust status. Leave unpopulated if the validity or trust of the certificate was unchecked.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.Ext.dll.Ext.code_signature.subject_name<code></td><td>Subject name of the code signer</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.Ext.dll.Ext.code_signature.trusted<code></td><td>Stores the trust status of the certificate chain.  Validating the trust of the certificate chain may be complicated, and this field should only be populated by tools that actively check the status.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.Ext.dll.Ext.mapped_address<code></td><td>The base address where this module is loaded.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.Ext.dll.Ext.mapped_size<code></td><td>The size of this module's memory mapping, in bytes.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.Ext.dll.code_signature.exists<code></td><td>Boolean to capture if a signature is present.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.Ext.dll.code_signature.status<code></td><td>Additional information about the certificate status.  This is useful for logging cryptographic errors with the certificate validity or trust status. Leave unpopulated if the validity or trust of the certificate was unchecked.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.Ext.dll.code_signature.subject_name<code></td><td>Subject name of the code signer</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.Ext.dll.code_signature.trusted<code></td><td>Stores the trust status of the certificate chain.  Validating the trust of the certificate chain may be complicated, and this field should only be populated by tools that actively check the status.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.Ext.dll.hash.md5<code></td><td>MD5 hash.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.Ext.dll.hash.sha1<code></td><td>SHA1 hash.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.Ext.dll.hash.sha256<code></td><td>SHA256 hash.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.Ext.dll.name<code></td><td>Name of the library.  This generally maps to the name of the file on disk.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.Ext.dll.path<code></td><td>Full file path of the library.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.Ext.protection<code></td><td>Indicates the protection level of this process.  Uses the same syntax as Process Explorer. Examples include PsProtectedSignerWinTcb, PsProtectedSignerWinTcb-Light, and PsProtectedSignerWindows-Light.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.Ext.token.domain<code></td><td>Domain of token user.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.Ext.token.elevation<code></td><td>Whether the token is elevated or not</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.Ext.token.elevation_type<code></td><td>What level of elevation the token has</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.Ext.token.integrity_level_name<code></td><td>Human readable integrity level.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.Ext.token.sid<code></td><td>Token user's Security Identifier (SID).</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.Ext.token.user<code></td><td>Username of token owner.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.Ext.user<code></td><td>User associated with the running process.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.args<code></td><td>Array of process arguments, starting with the absolute path to the executable.  May be filtered to protect sensitive information.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.args_count<code></td><td>Length of the process.args array.  This field can be useful for querying or performing bucket analysis on how many arguments were provided to start a process. More arguments may be an indication of suspicious activity.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.code_signature.exists<code></td><td>Boolean to capture if a signature is present.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.command_line<code></td><td>Full command line that started the process, including the absolute path to the executable, and all arguments.  Some arguments may be filtered to protect sensitive information.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.entity_id<code></td><td>Unique identifier for the process.  The implementation of this is specified by the data source, but some examples of what could be used here are a process-generated UUID, Sysmon Process GUIDs, or a hash of some uniquely identifying components of a process.  Constructing a globally unique identifier is a common practice to mitigate PID reuse as well as to identify a specific process over time, across multiple monitored hosts.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.executable<code></td><td>Absolute path to the process executable.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.hash.md5<code></td><td>MD5 hash.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.hash.sha1<code></td><td>SHA1 hash.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.hash.sha256<code></td><td>SHA256 hash.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.name<code></td><td>Process name.  Sometimes called program name or similar.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.parent.Ext.architecture<code></td><td>Process architecture.  It can differ from host architecture.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.parent.Ext.code_signature.exists<code></td><td>Boolean to capture if a signature is present.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.parent.Ext.code_signature.status<code></td><td>Additional information about the certificate status.  This is useful for logging cryptographic errors with the certificate validity or trust status. Leave unpopulated if the validity or trust of the certificate was unchecked.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.parent.Ext.code_signature.subject_name<code></td><td>Subject name of the code signer</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.parent.Ext.code_signature.trusted<code></td><td>Stores the trust status of the certificate chain.  Validating the trust of the certificate chain may be complicated, and this field should only be populated by tools that actively check the status.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.parent.Ext.protection<code></td><td>Indicates the protection level of this process.  Uses the same syntax as Process Explorer. Examples include PsProtectedSignerWinTcb, PsProtectedSignerWinTcb-Light, and PsProtectedSignerWindows-Light.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.parent.Ext.user<code></td><td>User associated with the running process.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.parent.args<code></td><td>Array of process arguments, starting with the absolute path to the executable.  May be filtered to protect sensitive information.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.parent.args_count<code></td><td>Length of the process.args array.  This field can be useful for querying or performing bucket analysis on how many arguments were provided to start a process. More arguments may be an indication of suspicious activity.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.parent.code_signature.exists<code></td><td>Boolean to capture if a signature is present.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.parent.code_signature.status<code></td><td>Additional information about the certificate status.  This is useful for logging cryptographic errors with the certificate validity or trust status. Leave unpopulated if the validity or trust of the certificate was unchecked.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.parent.code_signature.subject_name<code></td><td>Subject name of the code signer</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.parent.code_signature.trusted<code></td><td>Stores the trust status of the certificate chain.  Validating the trust of the certificate chain may be complicated, and this field should only be populated by tools that actively check the status.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.parent.command_line<code></td><td>Full command line that started the process, including the absolute path to the executable, and all arguments.  Some arguments may be filtered to protect sensitive information.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.parent.entity_id<code></td><td>Unique identifier for the process.  The implementation of this is specified by the data source, but some examples of what could be used here are a process-generated UUID, Sysmon Process GUIDs, or a hash of some uniquely identifying components of a process.  Constructing a globally unique identifier is a common practice to mitigate PID reuse as well as to identify a specific process over time, across multiple monitored hosts.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.parent.executable<code></td><td>Absolute path to the process executable.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.parent.hash.md5<code></td><td>MD5 hash.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.parent.hash.sha1<code></td><td>SHA1 hash.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.parent.hash.sha256<code></td><td>SHA256 hash.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.parent.name<code></td><td>Process name.  Sometimes called program name or similar.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.parent.pid<code></td><td>Process id.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.parent.ppid<code></td><td>Parent process' pid.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.parent.start<code></td><td>The time the process started.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.parent.uptime<code></td><td>Seconds the process has been up.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.pid<code></td><td>Process id.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.ppid<code></td><td>Parent process' pid.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.start<code></td><td>The time the process started.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.thread.Ext.call_stack.instruction_pointer<code></td><td>The return address of this stack frame.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.thread.Ext.call_stack.memory_section.memory_address<code></td><td>Base address of the memory region containing `instruction_pointer`.  Corresponds to `MEMORY_BASIC_INFORMATION.BaseAddress`</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.thread.Ext.call_stack.memory_section.memory_size<code></td><td>Size of the memory region containing `instruction_pointer`.  Corresponds to `MEMORY_BASIC_INFORMATION.RegionSize`</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.thread.Ext.call_stack.memory_section.protection<code></td><td>Memory protection flags of this memory region.  Corresponds to `MEMORY_BASIC_INFORMATION.Protect`</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.thread.Ext.call_stack.module_name<code></td><td>The name of the DLL/module containing `instruction_pointer`.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.thread.Ext.call_stack.module_path<code></td><td>The path to the DLL/module containing `instruction_pointer`.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.thread.Ext.call_stack.symbol_info<code></td><td>The nearest symbol for `instruction_pointer`.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.thread.Ext.call_stack_final_user_module.name<code></td><td>The file name of the call_stack_final_user_module.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.thread.Ext.call_stack_summary<code></td><td>Concatentation of the non-repeated modules in the call stack.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.thread.Ext.start_address<code></td><td>Memory address where the thread began execution.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.thread.Ext.start_address_module<code></td><td>The dll/module where the thread began execution.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.thread.id<code></td><td>Thread ID.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>process.uptime<code></td><td>Seconds the process has been up.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>rule.ruleset<code></td><td>Name of the ruleset, policy, group, or parent category in which the rule used to generate this event is a member.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>user.domain<code></td><td>Name of the directory the user is a member of.  For example, an LDAP or Active Directory domain name.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>user.name<code></td><td>Short name or login of the user.</td></tr>
</table>
